frontend/src/projects/1970-01-01-ipm.md, before:

---
title: "Mapping the Medieval Countryside: The Fifteenth-Century Inquisitions
  Post Mortem"
name: "Mapping the Medieval Countryside: The Fifteenth-Century Inquisitions Post
  Mortem"
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: IPM
slug: ipm
foundingDate: null
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature: null
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: University of Winchester
    slug: university-of-winchester
departments:
  - name: University of Winchester
    slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
members:
  - name: Paul Spence
    slug: paul-spence
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Gordon McKelvie
    slug: gordon-mckelvie
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: Michael Hicks
    slug: michael-hicks
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: Matthew Holford
    slug: matthew-holford
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Charlotte Tupman
    slug: charlotte-tupman
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: David Little
    slug: david-little
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Faith Lawrence
    slug: faith-lawrence
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Tim Watts
    slug: tim-watts
    roleName: Research Software Systems Administrator
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Matthew Tompkins
    slug: matthew-tompkins
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://inquisitionspostmortem.ac.uk/
  - name: Data deposit repository
    url: https://doi.org/10.18742/g53w-ry29
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FI027223%2F1
---

Mapping the Medieval Countryside was a major research project dedicated to creating a digital edition of the medieval English inquisitions post mortem (IPMs) from c. 1236 to 1509.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/1970-01-01-ipm.md, after:

---
title: "Mapping the Medieval Countryside: The Fifteenth-Century Inquisitions
  Post Mortem"
name: "Mapping the Medieval Countryside: The Fifteenth-Century Inquisitions Post
  Mortem"
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: IPM
slug: ipm
foundingDate: null
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/IPM--Section of the Borstall map.jpg
  title: Section of the Borstall Map
  description:
    A detailed historical map illustration depicting a medieval village
    with buildings, roads, greenery, and a deer, drawn in vibrant colours.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: University of Winchester
    slug: university-of-winchester
departments:
  - name: University of Winchester
    slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
members:
  - name: Paul Spence
    slug: paul-spence
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Gordon McKelvie
    slug: gordon-mckelvie
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: Michael Hicks
    slug: michael-hicks
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: Matthew Holford
    slug: matthew-holford
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Charlotte Tupman
    slug: charlotte-tupman
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: David Little
    slug: david-little
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Faith Lawrence
    slug: faith-lawrence
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Tim Watts
    slug: tim-watts
    roleName: Research Software Systems Administrator
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Matthew Tompkins
    slug: matthew-tompkins
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Winchester
      slug: university-of-winchester
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://inquisitionspostmortem.ac.uk/
  - name: Data deposit repository
    url: https://doi.org/10.18742/g53w-ry29
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FI027223%2F1
---

Mapping the Medieval Countryside was a major research project dedicated to creating a digital edition of the medieval English inquisitions post mortem (IPMs) from c. 1236 to 1509.
