frontend/src/projects/1970-01-01-pbw.md, before:

---
title: Prosopography of the Byzantine World
name: Prosopography of the Byzantine World
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: PBW
slug: pbw
foundingDate: null
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/PBW_factoid_prosopography_data_model.png
  title: PBW Factoid Prosopography Data Model
  description: null
  width: 1400
  height: 795
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: Leverhulme Trust
    slug: leverhulme-trust
  - name: A.G. Leventis Foundation
    slug: ag-leventis-foundation
  - name: British Academy
    slug: british-academy
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
members:
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Beatriz Caballero
    slug: beatriz-caballero
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Eleonora Litta Modignani Picozzi
    slug: eleonora-litta
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Charlotte Roueché
    slug: charlotte-roueche
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Harold Short
    slug: harold-short
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: John Bradley
    slug: john-bradley
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Tassos Papacostas
    slug: tassos-papacostas
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Elliott Hall
    slug: elliott-hall
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Michael Jeffreys
    slug: michael-jeffreys
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Oxford
      slug: university-of-oxford
  - name: Paul Vetch
    slug: paul-vetch
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://pbw2016.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/pbw-django"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/pbw-django
  - name:
      Medieval Academy of America’s Database of Medieval Digital Resources Entry
      URL
    url: https://mdr-maa.org/resource/prosopography-of-the-byzantine-world/
---

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/1970-01-01-pbw.md, after:

---
title: Prosopography of the Byzantine World
name: Prosopography of the Byzantine World
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: PBW
slug: pbw
foundingDate: null
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/PBW--Interior of Ayasofya Hagia Sophia.jpg
  title: Interior of Ayasofya Hagia Sophia. Photo by Raimond Klavins
  description: A Byzantine mosaic of Christ with a golden background, partially
    worn, illuminated by sunlight casting shadows through a lattice window.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: Leverhulme Trust
    slug: leverhulme-trust
  - name: A.G. Leventis Foundation
    slug: ag-leventis-foundation
  - name: British Academy
    slug: british-academy
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
members:
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Beatriz Caballero
    slug: beatriz-caballero
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Eleonora Litta Modignani Picozzi
    slug: eleonora-litta
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Charlotte Roueché
    slug: charlotte-roueche
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Harold Short
    slug: harold-short
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: John Bradley
    slug: john-bradley
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Tassos Papacostas
    slug: tassos-papacostas
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Elliott Hall
    slug: elliott-hall
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Michael Jeffreys
    slug: michael-jeffreys
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Oxford
      slug: university-of-oxford
  - name: Paul Vetch
    slug: paul-vetch
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://pbw2016.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/pbw-django"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/pbw-django
  - name:
      Medieval Academy of America’s Database of Medieval Digital Resources Entry
      URL
    url: https://mdr-maa.org/resource/prosopography-of-the-byzantine-world/
---
