frontend/src/projects/2004-02-01-inscriptions-of-aphrodisias.md, before:

---
title: Inscriptions of Aphrodisias
name: Inscriptions of Aphrodisias
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: InsAph
slug: inscriptions-of-aphrodisias
foundingDate: 2004-02-01
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/Inscriptions_of_Aphrodisias--screenshot-of-city-plan.png
  title: Screenshot of city plan of Aphrodisias.
  description: North-east section highlighted on city plan of Aphrodisias.
  width: 1767
  height: 1356
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Heidelberg University
    slug: heidelberg-university
  - name: New York University
    slug: nyu
members:
  - name: Benet Salway
    slug: benet-salway
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University College London
      slug: ucl
  - name: Christopher Ratté
    slug: christopher-ratte
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: New York University
      slug: nyu
  - name: Harold Short
    slug: harold-short
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Juan Garcés
    slug: juan-garces
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Michael Crawford
    slug: michael-crawford
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University College London
      slug: ucl
  - name: Gabriel Bodard
    slug: gabriel-bodard
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Bert Smith
    slug: bert-smith
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Oxford
      slug: university-of-oxford
  - name: John Lavagnino
    slug: john-lavagnino
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Angelos Chaniotis
    slug: angelos-chaniotis
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Heidelberg University
      slug: heidelberg-university
  - name: Paul Spence
    slug: paul-spence
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Charlotte Roueché
    slug: charlotte-roueche
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Zaneta Au
    slug: zaneta-au
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Joyce Reynholds
    slug: joyce-reynholds
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Newnham College
      slug: newnham-college
  - name: Tom Elliott
    slug: tom-elliott
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: http://insaph.kcl.ac.uk/
---

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2004-02-01-inscriptions-of-aphrodisias.md, after:

---
title: Inscriptions of Aphrodisias
name: Inscriptions of Aphrodisias
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: InsAph
slug: inscriptions-of-aphrodisias
foundingDate: 2004-02-01
dissolutionDate: 2007-10-31
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/InsAph-- Aphrodisias Ancient CityPhoto by Edhem
    ŞEŞE.jpg
  title: Aphrodisias Ancient City, photo by Edhem Şeşe
  description: Close-up view of ancient stone columns and carved architectural
    details in Aphrodisias, set against a clear blue sky.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Heidelberg University
    slug: heidelberg-university
  - name: New York University
    slug: nyu
members:
  - name: Benet Salway
    slug: benet-salway
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University College London
      slug: ucl
  - name: Christopher Ratté
    slug: christopher-ratte
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: New York University
      slug: nyu
  - name: Harold Short
    slug: harold-short
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Juan Garcés
    slug: juan-garces
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Michael Crawford
    slug: michael-crawford
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University College London
      slug: ucl
  - name: Gabriel Bodard
    slug: gabriel-bodard
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Bert Smith
    slug: bert-smith
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Oxford
      slug: university-of-oxford
  - name: John Lavagnino
    slug: john-lavagnino
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Angelos Chaniotis
    slug: angelos-chaniotis
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Heidelberg University
      slug: heidelberg-university
  - name: Paul Spence
    slug: paul-spence
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Charlotte Roueché
    slug: charlotte-roueche
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Zaneta Au
    slug: zaneta-au
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Joyce Reynholds
    slug: joyce-reynholds
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Newnham College
      slug: newnham-college
  - name: Tom Elliott
    slug: tom-elliott
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: http://insaph.kcl.ac.uk/
  - name: Data desosit repository (Inscriptions of Aphrodisias 2007)
    url: https://doi.org/10.18742/c.7637984.v1
  - name: Data deposit repository (Aphrodisias in Late Antiquity 2004)
    url: https://doi.org/10.18742/c.7637966.v1
---

Under this page we collect information about several projects related to the publication over several years of Late Antique inscriptions from the excavations at Aphrodisias in Caria (Western Asia Minor, western Turkey today).

An enhanced online edition was produced in 2004 and in 2007 a full corpus of all the texts known to the researchers followed. These were all edited in EpiDoc XML, under the guidance of Gabriel Bodard.
