frontend/src/projects/2009-01-01-inscriptions-of-roman-tripolitania.md, before:

---
title: Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania
name: Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: IRT
slug: inscriptions-of-roman-tripolitania
foundingDate: 2009-01-01
dissolutionDate: 2021-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature: null
funders:
  - name: Leverhulme Trust
    slug: leverhulme-trust
  - name: National Endowment for the Humanities
    slug: neh
  - name: JISC
    slug: jisc
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
members:
  - name: Hafed Walda
    slug: hafed-walda
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Charlotte Roueché
    slug: charlotte-roueche
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Brian Maher
    slug: brian-maher
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Irene Vagionakis
    slug: irene-vagionakis
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Joyce Reynolds
    slug: joyce-reynolds
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Cambridge
      slug: cambridge
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tom Elliott
    slug: tom-elliott
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: New York University
      slug: nyu
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Florence du Pré
    slug: florence-du-pre
    roleName: Research Software Project Manager
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Gabriel Bodard
    slug: gabriel-bodard
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Joyce Reynolds
    slug: joyce-reynolds
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Pam Mellen
    slug: pam-mellen
    roleName: Research Software Lab Manager
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tim Watts
    slug: tim-watts
    roleName: Research Software Systems Administrator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Caroline Barron
    slug: caroline-barron
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
keywords:
  - Digital collection
  - Digital edition
  - Classics
urls:
  - name: Project URL 2021
    url: https://irt2021.inslib.kcl.ac.uk/en/
  - name: Project URL 2009
    url: https://inslib.kcl.ac.uk/irt2009/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/ircyr-efes"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/ircyr-efes
  - name: Data deposit repository
    url: https://kcl.figshare.com/collections/Inscriptions_of_Roman_Tripolitania_2021/6002275
---

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2009-01-01-inscriptions-of-roman-tripolitania.md, after:

---
title: Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania
name: Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: IRT
slug: inscriptions-of-roman-tripolitania
foundingDate: 2009-01-01
dissolutionDate: 2021-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image:
    /assets/images/projects/IRT--Ward-Perkins,1947 (Ward-Perkins Archive, BSR
    47.IX.10).jpg
  title:
    Part of a mosaic panel comprising the left-hand side of a tabella ansata
    (IRT0013). Ward Perkins, 1947 (Ward Perkins Archive, Bsr 47.ix.10)
  description:
    A black and white photograph of an ancient mosaic inscription with
    Latin text, surrounded by geometric patterns on a stone floor.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Leverhulme Trust
    slug: leverhulme-trust
  - name: National Endowment for the Humanities
    slug: neh
  - name: JISC
    slug: jisc
  - name: Society for Libyan Studies
    slug: society-for-libyan-studies
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
members:
  - name: Hafed Walda
    slug: hafed-walda
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Charlotte Roueché
    slug: charlotte-roueche
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Brian Maher
    slug: brian-maher
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Irene Vagionakis
    slug: irene-vagionakis
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tom Elliott
    slug: tom-elliott
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: New York University
      slug: nyu
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Florence du Pré
    slug: florence-du-pre
    roleName: Research Software Project Manager
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Gabriel Bodard
    slug: gabriel-bodard
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Joyce Reynolds
    slug: joyce-reynolds
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
  - name: Pam Mellen
    slug: pam-mellen
    roleName: Research Software Lab Manager
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tim Watts
    slug: tim-watts
    roleName: Research Software Systems Administrator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Caroline Barron
    slug: caroline-barron
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Classics
      slug: fah-department-of-classics
keywords:
  - Digital collection
  - Digital edition
  - Classics
urls:
  - name: Project URL 2021
    url: https://irt2021.inslib.kcl.ac.uk/en/
  - name: Project URL 2009  - archived static site
    url: https://inslib.kcl.ac.uk/irt2009/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/ircyr-efes"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/ircyr-efes
  - name: Data deposit repository
    url: https://kcl.figshare.com/collections/Inscriptions_of_Roman_Tripolitania_2021/6002275
  - name: Online exhibition
    url: https://ipervisions.digitalcollections.bsr.ac.uk/irt/
---

The first corpus of Roman inscriptions from Tripolitania (today Wester Lybia) was published by Joyce Reynolds in 1952. In 2009 she worked with Gabriel Bodard, Tom Elliott, Charlotte Roueché and Hafed Walda to republish that volume - with some 20 more texts - in digital form, with translations and full illustration. King's Digital Lab archived that site and still hosts it in static form.

In 2021 Bodard and Roueché, with Caroline Barron and Irene Vagionakis worked to enhance that publication by adding all the inscriptions from the area published since 1952, drawing from a variety of sources.

In 2020 KDL archived and converted the 2009 digital edition of _Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania_ (IRT) to a static site with limited functionalities and created an IRT2021 EFES (EpiDoc Front End Services) instance with associated environments.

EFES is a publication solution for researchers and editors who have produced EpiDoc-encoded texts but do not necessarily have access to Research Software Engineering support. EFES processes EpiDoc XML, generates epigraphic indices by default, and is widely adopted by the EpiDoc development community. Used for several EpiDoc corpora, EFES is based on the Kiln platform developed for publication of TEI XML projects at the Department of Digital Humanities and King’s Digital Lab.
