frontend/src/projects/2011-01-01-iospe.md, before:

---
title: Ancient Inscriptions of the Northern Black Sea
name: Ancient Inscriptions of the Northern Black Sea
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: IOSPE
slug: iospe
foundingDate: 2011-01-01
dissolutionDate: 2017-04-30
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature: null
funders:
  - name: King's College London
    slug: kings-college-london
  - name: Ausonius
    slug: ausonius
  - name: Union Académique Internationale
    slug: union-academique-internationale
  - name: Loeb Classical Library
    slug: loeb-classical-library
  - name: Russian Academy of Sciences
    slug: russian-academy-of-sciences
  - name: The A. G. Leventis Foundation
    slug: the-a-g-leventis-foundation
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
members:
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Gabriel Bodard
    slug: gabriel-bodard
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Vetch
    slug: paul-vetch
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Irene Polinskaya
    slug: irene-polinskaya
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Raffaele Viglianti
    slug: raffaele-viglianti
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Alejandro Giacometti
    slug: alejandro-giacometti
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Jamie Norrish
    slug: jamie-norrish
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Askold Ivantchik
    slug: askold-ivantchik
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Beatriz Caballero
    slug: beatriz-caballero
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Classics
  - Corpus construction
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: http://iospe.kcl.ac.uk/index.html
---

IOSPE represents a third edition (and the first to be online) of a corpus of Ancient Greek and Latin inscriptions originating from the Northern Coast of the Black Sea which was initially published between 1885-1901 as Inscriptiones antiquae Orae Septentrionalis Ponti Euxini graecae et latinae by Russian scholar V.V. Latschyev.
Built using KDL's Kiln framework for creating digital applications based on XML source files, the website presents the inscriptions at a high level of scholarly detail and makes them findable through various types of indices - such as divine figures mentioned, or symbols used - as well as by searching on the Greek text.
Because of the edition's origins and the central role of contemporary Russian scholars the website is available in both English and Russian language versions, and work to add a Ukrainian language version is in progress.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2011-01-01-iospe.md, after:

---
title: Ancient Inscriptions of the Northern Black Sea
name: Ancient Inscriptions of the Northern Black Sea
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: IOSPE
slug: iospe
foundingDate: 2011-01-01
dissolutionDate: 2017-04-30
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/IOSPE--Photograph © Irene Polinskaya.jpg
  title: Photo by Irene Polinskaya
  description: A vast field of tall golden crops stretches toward the horizon,
    with a low, grassy hill in the distance beneath a cloudy blue sky.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: King's College London
    slug: kings-college-london
  - name: Ausonius
    slug: ausonius
  - name: Union Académique Internationale
    slug: union-academique-internationale
  - name: Loeb Classical Library
    slug: loeb-classical-library
  - name: Russian Academy of Sciences
    slug: russian-academy-of-sciences
  - name: The A. G. Leventis Foundation
    slug: the-a-g-leventis-foundation
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Classics
    slug: fah-department-of-classics
members:
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Gabriel Bodard
    slug: gabriel-bodard
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Vetch
    slug: paul-vetch
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Irene Polinskaya
    slug: irene-polinskaya
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Raffaele Viglianti
    slug: raffaele-viglianti
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Alejandro Giacometti
    slug: alejandro-giacometti
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Jamie Norrish
    slug: jamie-norrish
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Askold Ivantchik
    slug: askold-ivantchik
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Beatriz Caballero
    slug: beatriz-caballero
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Classics
  - Corpus construction
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: http://iospe.kcl.ac.uk/index.html
---

IOSPE represents a third edition (and the first to be online) of a corpus of Ancient Greek and Latin inscriptions originating from the Northern Coast of the Black Sea which was initially published between 1885-1901 as Inscriptiones antiquae Orae Septentrionalis Ponti Euxini graecae et latinae by Russian scholar V.V. Latschyev.
Built using KDL's Kiln framework for creating digital applications based on XML source files, the website presents the inscriptions at a high level of scholarly detail and makes them findable through various types of indices - such as divine figures mentioned, or symbols used - as well as by searching on the Greek text.
Because of the edition's origins and the central role of contemporary Russian scholars the website is available in both English and Russian language versions, and work to add a Ukrainian language version is in progress.
