frontend/src/projects/2013-10-01-moi.md, before:

---
title: A Publishing and Communication History of the Ministry of Information, 1939-45
name: A Publishing and Communication History of the Ministry of Information, 1939-45
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: MOI
slug: moi
foundingDate: 2013-10-01
dissolutionDate: 2017-09-30
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature: null
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: School of Advanced Studies, University of London
    slug: school-of-advanced-studies
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
  - name: Leeds Beckett University
    slug: leeds-beckett-university
  - name: University of London
    slug: university-of-london
members:
  - name: Hollie Price
    slug: hollie-price
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Christopher Bannister
    slug: christopher-bannister
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: David Little
    slug: david-little
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Brian Maher
    slug: brian-maher
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Simon Eliot
    slug: simon-eliot
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Henry Irving
    slug: henry-irving
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Leeds Beckett University
      slug: leeds-beckett-university
  - name: Marc Wiggam
    slug: marc-wiggam
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: Katherine Howells
    slug: katherine-howells
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Alejandro Giacometti
    slug: alejandro-giacometti
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Vetch
    slug: paul-vetch
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://moidigital.ac.uk/
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FK007505%2F1
---

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2013-10-01-moi.md, after:

---
title: A Publishing and Communication History of the Ministry of Information, 1939-45
name: A Publishing and Communication History of the Ministry of Information, 1939-45
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: MOI
slug: moi
foundingDate: 2013-10-01
dissolutionDate: 2017-09-30
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/MOI--Panel of newspaper staff.jpg
  title:
    "A panel of newspaper and Ministry staff addresses journalists at Senate
    House, 1944. Image courtesy of the Imperial War Museum. © IWM (D 18066)  "
  description: A historical black-and-white photograph of a panel of five men
    seated at a long table, addressing an audience, with large maps on the wall
    behind them.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: School of Advanced Studies, University of London
    slug: school-of-advanced-studies
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
  - name: Leeds Beckett University
    slug: leeds-beckett-university
  - name: University of London
    slug: university-of-london
members:
  - name: Hollie Price
    slug: hollie-price
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Christopher Bannister
    slug: christopher-bannister
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: David Little
    slug: david-little
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Brian Maher
    slug: brian-maher
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Simon Eliot
    slug: simon-eliot
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Henry Irving
    slug: henry-irving
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Leeds Beckett University
      slug: leeds-beckett-university
  - name: Marc Wiggam
    slug: marc-wiggam
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of London
      slug: university-of-london
  - name: Katherine Howells
    slug: katherine-howells
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Alejandro Giacometti
    slug: alejandro-giacometti
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Vetch
    slug: paul-vetch
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://moidigital.ac.uk/
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FK007505%2F1
---
