frontend/src/projects/2017-10-01-archetype.md, before:

---
title: Archetype
name: Archetype
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: archetype
foundingDate: 2017-10-01
dissolutionDate: 2021-02-07
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/archetype-screenshot.jpg
  title: Screenshot from project website.
  description: A computer screen displaying handwritten text.
  width: 1553
  height: 600
funders:
  - name: European Research Council
    slug: erc
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
members:
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Stephan Hügel
    slug: stephan-hugel
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Geoffroy Noël
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Peter Stokes
    slug: peter-stokes
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Beatriz Caballero
    slug: beatriz-caballero
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Giancarlo Buomprisco
    slug: giancarlo-buomprisco
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Stewart Brookes
    slug: stewart-brookes
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Linguistics
  - Digital edition
  - Digital reading/viewing environment
  - Digital tool creation
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://github.com/kcl-ddh/digipal/wiki/
  - name: "Repository: kcl-ddh/digipal"
    url: https://github.com/kcl-ddh/digipal
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/archetype-digipal"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/archetype-digipal
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/archetype-django"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/archetype-django
  - name: ERC URL
    url: https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/263751
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FL008041%2F1
  - name: UKRI URL 2
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FL013975%2F1
  - name: Source code URL
    url: https://zenodo.org/records/5586696
---

Archetype (formerly known as 'The DigiPal Framework') was an open source web application for the structured annotation, presentation retrieval and analysis of units of visual communication. KDL no longer maintains this legacy framework. Its constituent features and underlying concepts may inspire new, modular palaeographical tools in the future.

The software has been used by around 20 projects worldwide, in languages and scripts including Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Cuneiform, Japanese and Mayan. The underlying system also won a prize from the Medieval Academy of America in 2017.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2017-10-01-archetype.md, after:

---
title: Archetype
name: Archetype
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: archetype
foundingDate: 2017-10-01
dissolutionDate: 2021-02-07
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/Archetype--Translations of titles to
    illustrations, Cambridge, Corpus Christi College, MS 23, p.109..jpg
  title: Translations of Titles to Illustrations, Cambridge, Corpus Christi
    College, Ms 23, P.109.
  description:
    Manuscript page with Latin text in black ink, red initials, and an
    illustration of figures, overlaid with green and orange annotation boxes.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: European Research Council
    slug: erc
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
members:
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Stephan Hügel
    slug: stephan-hugel
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Geoffroy Noël
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Peter Stokes
    slug: peter-stokes
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Beatriz Caballero
    slug: beatriz-caballero
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Giancarlo Buomprisco
    slug: giancarlo-buomprisco
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Stewart Brookes
    slug: stewart-brookes
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Linguistics
  - Digital edition
  - Digital reading/viewing environment
  - Digital tool creation
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://github.com/kcl-ddh/digipal/wiki/
  - name: "Repository: kcl-ddh/digipal"
    url: https://github.com/kcl-ddh/digipal
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/archetype-digipal"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/archetype-digipal
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/archetype-django"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/archetype-django
  - name: ERC URL
    url: https://cordis.europa.eu/project/id/263751
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FL008041%2F1
  - name: UKRI URL 2
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FL013975%2F1
  - name: Source code URL
    url: https://zenodo.org/records/5586696
---

Archetype (formerly known as 'The DigiPal Framework') was an open source web application for the structured annotation, presentation retrieval and analysis of units of visual communication. KDL no longer maintains this legacy framework. Its constituent features and underlying concepts may inspire new, modular palaeographical tools in the future.

The software has been used by around 20 projects worldwide, in languages and scripts including Latin, Greek, Hebrew, Cuneiform, Japanese and Mayan. The underlying system also won a prize from the Medieval Academy of America in 2017.
