frontend/src/projects/2017-08-01-cotr.md, before:

---
title: The Community of the Realm in Scotland, 1249-1424
name: The Community of the Realm in Scotland, 1249-1424
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: COTR
slug: cotr
foundingDate: 2017-08-01
dissolutionDate: 2021-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/cotr.jpg
  title: Screenshot taken from the The community of the realm in Scotland,
    1249–1424 website of the side by side text viewer
  description: A webpage demonstrating its appearance and functionality.
  width: 3320
  height: 1946
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: University of Glasgow
    slug: university-of-glasgow
  - name: FAH Department of History
    slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: University of Edinburgh
    slug: university-of-edinburgh
members:
  - name: Dauvit Broun
    slug: dauvit-broun
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Glasgow
      slug: university-of-glasgow
  - name: John Reuben Davies
    slug: john-reuben-davies
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Glasgow
      slug: university-of-glasgow
  - name: Geoffroy Noël
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Steve Boardman
    slug: steve-boardman
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Edinburgh
      slug: university-of-edinburgh
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Alice Taylor
    slug: alice-taylor
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Matthew Hammond
    slug: matthew-hammond
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Data Visualisation
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://cotr.ac.uk/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/cotr"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/cotr
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/ctrs-archetype"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/ctrs-archetype
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/cotr-static-viz"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/cotr-static-viz
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FP013759%2F1
  - name:
      Medieval Academy of America’s Database of Medieval Digital Resources Entry
      URL
    url: https://mdr-maa.org/resource/the-community-of-the-realm-in-scotland-1249-1424/
---

_The Community of the Realm in Scotland_ aims to show how new ways of representing medieval texts in digital media can yield new understandings of medieval political communities and their written manifestations. KDL created means for capturing and displaying change through historic versions of a text, allowing scholars to see where unsettled areas of the text mark places of contested significance.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2017-08-01-cotr.md, after:

---
title: The Community of the Realm in Scotland, 1249-1424
name: The Community of the Realm in Scotland, 1249-1424
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: COTR
slug: cotr
foundingDate: 2017-08-01
dissolutionDate: 2021-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Maintained
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/COTR--marie-bellando-mitjans.jpg
  title: Photo by Marie Bellando Mitjans
  description: A close-up of an aged manuscript with dense handwritten Latin
    script, slightly creased and illuminated by soft light.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: University of Glasgow
    slug: university-of-glasgow
  - name: FAH Department of History
    slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: University of Edinburgh
    slug: university-of-edinburgh
members:
  - name: Dauvit Broun
    slug: dauvit-broun
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Glasgow
      slug: university-of-glasgow
  - name: John Reuben Davies
    slug: john-reuben-davies
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Glasgow
      slug: university-of-glasgow
  - name: Geoffroy Noël
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Steve Boardman
    slug: steve-boardman
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Edinburgh
      slug: university-of-edinburgh
  - name: Ginestra Ferraro
    slug: ginestra-ferraro
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Alice Taylor
    slug: alice-taylor
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Matthew Hammond
    slug: matthew-hammond
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Data Visualisation
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://cotr.ac.uk/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/cotr"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/cotr
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/ctrs-archetype"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/ctrs-archetype
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/cotr-static-viz"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/cotr-static-viz
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FP013759%2F1
  - name:
      Medieval Academy of America’s Database of Medieval Digital Resources Entry
      URL
    url: https://mdr-maa.org/resource/the-community-of-the-realm-in-scotland-1249-1424/
---

_The Community of the Realm in Scotland_ aims to show how new ways of representing medieval texts in digital media can yield new understandings of medieval political communities and their written manifestations. KDL created means for capturing and displaying change through historic versions of a text, allowing scholars to see where unsettled areas of the text mark places of contested significance.
