frontend/src/projects/2018-01-01-ai-and-story-telling.md, before:

---
title: AI and Story Telling
name: AI and Story Telling
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: ai-and-story-telling
foundingDate: 2018-01-01
dissolutionDate: 2019-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/INTELLIGENCE.original.jpg
  title: "An old typewriter as the centerpiece with a green desk light, Player's
    Navy Cut cigarette box, a notebook, a tin box and a collection of
    miscellaneous items. "
  description: Vintage workspace corner featuring an antique typewriter, a green
    lamp, a cigarette box and small personal artifacts.
  width: 1000
  height: 366
funders: []
departments:
  - name: King's Digital Lab
    slug: kdl
  - name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
    slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: Charisma.AI
    slug: to-play-for
  - name: Parabolic Theatre
    slug: parabolic-theatre
members:
  - name: Elliott Hall
    slug: elliott-hall
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: " Emily Bailey"
    slug: emily-bailey
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: Oscar Lindström
    slug: oscar-lindstroem
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: " Sarah Atkinson"
    slug: sarah-atkinson
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
      slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: James Smithies
    slug: james-smithies
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: " Ben James"
    slug: ben-james
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: Guy Gadney
    slug: guy-gadney
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: " Annette Parry"
    slug: annette-parry
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
keywords:
  - Media
  - Computational text analysis
  - Digital Creativity
urls:
  - name: Article URL
    url: https://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/16/2/000628/000628.html
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://aiandstorytelling.com/
---

An exciting fusion of creative writing and artificial intelligence to help writers create new forms of dynamic, interactive stories. An Innovate-funded collaboration between game company Charisma.AI, immersive company Parabolic Theatre, and King's College London, it specifically aimed to understand what the impact of artificially-intelligent memory is on storytelling and narrative structure, and how to transfer the resulting research into industry.

KDL Director James Smithies was PI on the project, while Senior RSE Elliott Hall was Co-I, serving as the head writer and technical consultant for two showcase demos in Unity created to refine the Charisma platform: For King & Country and The Kraken Wakes.

An article based on this project, "[Applied Digital Humanities and the Creative Industries in the United Kingdom](https://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/16/2/000628/000628.html)" By Smithies, Atkinson, and Hall, is now available in Issue 16.2 of Digital Humanities Quarterly

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2018-01-01-ai-and-story-telling.md, after:

---
title: AI and Story Telling
name: AI and Story Telling
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: ai-and-story-telling
foundingDate: 2018-01-01
dissolutionDate: 2019-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/AI and Story Telling--Data Mining 1 by Hanna
    Barakat & Archival Images of AI + AIxDESIGN.jpg
  title: Data Mining by Hanna Barakat & Archival Images of Ai + AIxDesign
  description: A surreal landscape of snowy cliffs with jagged mountain peaks
    under a vibrant gradient sky that shifts from orange to pink and purple.
    People wearing old-fashioned expedition clothing pull ropes across the snow,
    helping others traverse a crevice of circuits and wires. Tall transmission
    towers rise from the mountaintops, and in the depths of the canyon below, a
    grid of electronic circuits is melting the snow.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Innovation UK
    slug: innovation-uk
departments:
  - name: King's Digital Lab
    slug: kdl
  - name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
    slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: Charisma.AI
    slug: to-play-for
  - name: Parabolic Theatre
    slug: parabolic-theatre
members:
  - name: Elliott Hall
    slug: elliott-hall
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: " Emily Bailey"
    slug: emily-bailey
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: Oscar Lindström
    slug: oscar-lindstroem
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: " Sarah Atkinson"
    slug: sarah-atkinson
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
      slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: James Smithies
    slug: james-smithies
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: " Ben James"
    slug: ben-james
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: Guy Gadney
    slug: guy-gadney
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
  - name: " Annette Parry"
    slug: annette-parry
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: Charisma.AI
      slug: to-play-for
keywords:
  - Media
  - Computational text analysis
  - Digital Creativity
urls:
  - name: Article URL
    url: https://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/16/2/000628/000628.html
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://aiandstorytelling.com/
---

An exciting fusion of creative writing and artificial intelligence to help writers create new forms of dynamic, interactive stories. An Innovate-funded collaboration between game company Charisma.AI, immersive company Parabolic Theatre, and King's College London, it specifically aimed to understand what the impact of artificially-intelligent memory is on storytelling and narrative structure, and how to transfer the resulting research into industry.

KDL Director James Smithies was PI on the project, while Senior RSE Elliott Hall was Co-I, serving as the head writer and technical consultant for two showcase demos in Unity created to refine the Charisma platform: For King & Country and The Kraken Wakes.

An article based on this project, "[Applied Digital Humanities and the Creative Industries in the United Kingdom](https://digitalhumanities.org/dhq/vol/16/2/000628/000628.html)" By Smithies, Atkinson, and Hall, is now available in Issue 16.2 of Digital Humanities Quarterly
