frontend/src/projects/2021-01-14-visible-skin.md, before:

---
title: Renaissance Skin - Visible Skin
name: Renaissance Skin - Visible Skin
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: Visible Skin
slug: visible-skin
foundingDate: 2021-01-14
dissolutionDate: 2022-01-18
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/Visible_Skin_part_of_the_data_model.png
  title: Visible Skin - Part of the Data Model
  description: null
  width: 1333
  height: 860
funders:
  - name: Wellcome Trust
    slug: wellcome-trust
  - name: FAH King's Culture
    slug: fah-king-s-culture
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of History
    slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: Wiedemann Lampe
    slug: wiedemann-lampe
  - name: FAH King's Culture
    slug: fah-king-s-culture
members:
  - name: Leanne Hammacott
    slug: leanne-hammacott
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH King's Culture
      slug: fah-king-s-culture
  - name: Evelyn Welch
    slug: evelyn-welch
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of History
      slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: Peter Brathwaite
    slug: peter-brathwaite
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tiffany Ong
    slug: tiffany-ong
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Hannah Murphy
    slug: hannah-murphy
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of History
      slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: Geoffroy Noël
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://renaissanceskin.ac.uk/visibleskin/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/renskin-django"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/renskin-django
---

'Visible Skin' showcases the work of artist Peter Brathwaite in collaboration with the King’s Renaissance Skin research project and King’s Culture. Funded by the Wellcome Trust, the exhibition has been curated by Dr Hannah Murphy, Department of History in the Faculty of Arts & Humanities. KDL developed the online component to augment the physical exhibition, integrating the online exhibition into the existing Renaissance Skin website. Image transitions are used in the online gallery display to accentuate the similarities and differences between each original painting and Brathwaite's reimagining of it.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2021-01-14-visible-skin.md, after:

---
title: Renaissance Skin - Visible Skin
name: Renaissance Skin - Visible Skin
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: Visible Skin
slug: visible-skin
foundingDate: 2021-01-14
dissolutionDate: 2022-01-18
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/Visible_Skin--Online_Poster.jpg
  title: Visible Skin - Promotional Poster
  description: Digital promotional image for the Visible Skin exhibition,
    featuring a split-portrait of the artist, Peter Brathwaite, in historical
    attire on a black background.
  width: 2500
  height: 1667
funders:
  - name: Wellcome Trust
    slug: wellcome-trust
  - name: FAH King's Culture
    slug: fah-king-s-culture
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of History
    slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: Wiedemann Lampe
    slug: wiedemann-lampe
  - name: FAH King's Culture
    slug: fah-king-s-culture
members:
  - name: Leanne Hammacott
    slug: leanne-hammacott
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH King's Culture
      slug: fah-king-s-culture
  - name: Evelyn Welch
    slug: evelyn-welch
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of History
      slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: Peter Brathwaite
    slug: peter-brathwaite
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Paul Caton
    slug: paul-caton
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tiffany Ong
    slug: tiffany-ong
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Hannah Murphy
    slug: hannah-murphy
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of History
      slug: fah-department-of-history
  - name: Geoffroy Noël
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
keywords: []
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://renaissanceskin.ac.uk/visibleskin/
  - name: "Repository: kingsdigitallab/renskin-django"
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/renskin-django
---

'Visible Skin' showcases the work of artist Peter Brathwaite in collaboration with the King’s Renaissance Skin research project and King’s Culture. Funded by the Wellcome Trust, the exhibition has been curated by Dr Hannah Murphy, Department of History in the Faculty of Arts & Humanities. KDL developed the online component to augment the physical exhibition, integrating the online exhibition into the existing Renaissance Skin website. Image transitions are used in the online gallery display to accentuate the similarities and differences between each original painting and Brathwaite's reimagining of it.
