frontend/src/projects/2022-01-10-sudan-memory.md, before:

---
title: A Partnership for Conserving and Promoting Sudanese Cultural and
  Documentary Heritage
name: A Partnership for Conserving and Promoting Sudanese Cultural and
  Documentary Heritage
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: Sudan Memory
slug: sudan-memory
foundingDate: 2022-01-10
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/Sudan_Memory--homepage-screenshot.jpg
  title: null
  description:
    Screenshot from the Sudan memory website showing the Khalifa House
    Museum store, full of wooden storage boxes, on shelves and on the floor with
    superimposed Arabic script.
  width: 1862
  height: 1069
funders:
  - name: British Council
    slug: british-council
departments:
  - name: Sudanese Association for Archiving Knowledge
    slug: sudaak
  - name: Africa City of Technology
    slug: act
  - name: National Records Office of Sudan
    slug: national-records-office-of-sudan
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
members:
  - name: Mohamed Azrag Saeed
    slug: mohamed-azrag-saeed
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: National Records Office of Sudan
      slug: national-records-office-of-sudan
  - name: Samantha Callaghan
    slug: samantha-callaghan
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Ussama Abdelwahab Elrais
    slug: ussama-abdelwahab-elrais
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: Africa City of Technology
      slug: act
  - name: Marilyn Deegan
    slug: marilyn-deegan
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Badreldin Elhag Musa
    slug: badreldin-elhag-musa
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: Sudanese Association for Archiving Knowledge
      slug: sudaak
keywords:
  - Library and Information Studies
  - Digital collection
  - Digitization
  - Indigenous Digital Humanities
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://www.sudanmemory.org/
---

The Sudan Memory project seeks to conserve and promote valuable cultural materials from and about Sudan through digitisation and via [an online platform](https://www.sudanmemory.org/). Throughout the country, many interesting and rich archives are at risk for a number of reasons: extreme weather conditions, lack of appropriate storage conditions, neglect and conflict. Many public and private collections are also locked away and not easily accessible.

The Sudan Memory project mission is to help preserve these archives and their stories, so that current and future generations can benefit from this precious and important heritage.

KDL's involvement was principally through advice to the project team to support the development of the Sudan Memory digital resource. The Lab also takes part in broader discussions around sustainability of the Sudan Memory website and future projects that are being developed from the work already undertaken to capture and preserve Sudanese heritage.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2022-01-10-sudan-memory.md, after:

---
title: A Partnership for Conserving and Promoting Sudanese Cultural and
  Documentary Heritage
name: A Partnership for Conserving and Promoting Sudanese Cultural and
  Documentary Heritage
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: Sudan Memory
slug: sudan-memory
foundingDate: 2022-01-10
dissolutionDate: null
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image:
    /assets/images/projects/Sudan Memory--Record cover of the song al-Ginyat
    Basharu by al-Balabil.jpg
  title: Record Cover of the Song Al Ginyat Basharu by Al Balabil
  description: Vintage record cover with a yellow background featuring three
    portrait photographs of women, Arabic text, and decorative red stars.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: British Council
    slug: british-council
departments:
  - name: Sudanese Association for Archiving Knowledge
    slug: sudaak
  - name: Africa City of Technology
    slug: act
  - name: National Records Office of Sudan
    slug: national-records-office-of-sudan
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
members:
  - name: Mohamed Azrag Saeed
    slug: mohamed-azrag-saeed
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: National Records Office of Sudan
      slug: national-records-office-of-sudan
  - name: Samantha Callaghan
    slug: samantha-callaghan
    roleName: RSE team member
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Ussama Abdelwahab Elrais
    slug: ussama-abdelwahab-elrais
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: Africa City of Technology
      slug: act
  - name: Marilyn Deegan
    slug: marilyn-deegan
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Badreldin Elhag Musa
    slug: badreldin-elhag-musa
    roleName: Partner
    inOrganisation:
      name: Sudanese Association for Archiving Knowledge
      slug: sudaak
keywords:
  - Library and Information Studies
  - Digital collection
  - Digitization
  - Indigenous Digital Humanities
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://www.sudanmemory.org/
---

The Sudan Memory project seeks to conserve and promote valuable cultural materials from and about Sudan through digitisation and via [an online platform](https://www.sudanmemory.org/). Throughout the country, many interesting and rich archives are at risk for a number of reasons: extreme weather conditions, lack of appropriate storage conditions, neglect and conflict. Many public and private collections are also locked away and not easily accessible.

The Sudan Memory project mission is to help preserve these archives and their stories, so that current and future generations can benefit from this precious and important heritage.

KDL's involvement was principally through advice to the project team to support the development of the Sudan Memory digital resource. The Lab also takes part in broader discussions around sustainability of the Sudan Memory website and future projects that are being developed from the work already undertaken to capture and preserve Sudanese heritage.
