frontend/src/projects/2023-03-01-living-with-machines.md, before:

---
title: Living with Machines
name: Living with Machines
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: LwM
slug: living-with-machines
foundingDate: 2023-03-01
dissolutionDate: 2023-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/living-with-machines.jpg
  title: A selection of charts taken from the "Language of Mechanisation"
    analysing the data of certain words that changed meaning during the 19th
    century.
  description:  An assortment of graphs and charts are showcased, providing a
    visual breakdown of complex data.
  width: 2000
  height: 1102
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: Queen Mary, University of London
    slug: queen-mary-university-of-london
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
  - name: The British Library
    slug: the-british-library
  - name: The Alan Turing Institute
    slug: the-alan-turing-institute
members:
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Nilo Pedrazzini
    slug: nilo-pedrazzini
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Ruth Ahnert
    slug: ruth-ahnert
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Barbara McGillivray
    slug: barbara-mc-gillivray
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Mia Ridge
    slug: mia-ridge
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Kalle Westerling
    slug: kalle-westerling
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tiffany Ong
    slug: tiffany-ong
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Machine Learning and AI
  - Data Visualisation
urls:
  - name: Repository
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/lwm-davizct/
  - name: "Interactive notebook: Language of Accidents"
    url: https://observablehq.com/@jmiguelv/lwm-language-of-accidents
  - name: "Interactive notebook: Language of Mechanisation"
    url: https://observablehq.com/@jmiguelv/language-of-mechanisation
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FS01179X%2F1
  - name: Language of Mechanisation data paper
    url: https://openhumanitiesdata.metajnl.com/articles/10.5334/johd.195
---

A multidisciplinary research collaboration between the British Library and the Alan Turing Institute with King's College London, the Universities of Cambridge, East Anglia, Exeter, and London (QMUL), the [Living with Machines](https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/bldigital/living-with-machines/) project aimed to investigate how the introduction of machines into the workplace and landscape changed the lives of ordinary people in the nineteenth century. It had several research strands.

King's Digital Lab worked in collaboration with members of the project team to produce three products in the form notebooks:

1. to produce visualisations of various crowdsourcing tasks on the Zooniverse platform to provide insight into overall activity of annotation across workflows with the goal to make the code used for this project reproducible, so that others can use or adapt it to visualise data from their own crowdsourcing projects;
2. to visualise crowdsourced data from the original digitised newspaper articles, contemporary press directories that described individual newspapers, and classifications by Zooniverse volunteers;
3. to analyse words that changed meaning during the 19th century, examining their connection to the process of mechanisation in British society, specifically focused on terms used to describe vehicles.

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2023-03-01-living-with-machines.md, after:

---
title: Living with Machines
name: Living with Machines
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: LwM
slug: living-with-machines
foundingDate: 2023-03-01
dissolutionDate: 2023-12-31
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/Living with Machines--Data viz.jpg
  title: null
  description:
    A data visualisation featuring a symmetrical pattern of concentric
    circles in orange and blue on a dark background.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: Queen Mary, University of London
    slug: queen-mary-university-of-london
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: ddh
  - name: The British Library
    slug: the-british-library
  - name: The Alan Turing Institute
    slug: the-alan-turing-institute
members:
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Nilo Pedrazzini
    slug: nilo-pedrazzini
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Ruth Ahnert
    slug: ruth-ahnert
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Barbara McGillivray
    slug: barbara-mc-gillivray
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: ddh
  - name: Mia Ridge
    slug: mia-ridge
    roleName: Co-investigator
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Kalle Westerling
    slug: kalle-westerling
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Tiffany Ong
    slug: tiffany-ong
    roleName: Research Software Designer
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Machine Learning and AI
  - Data Visualisation
urls:
  - name: Repository
    url: https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/lwm-davizct/
  - name: "Interactive notebook: Language of Accidents"
    url: https://observablehq.com/@jmiguelv/lwm-language-of-accidents
  - name: "Interactive notebook: Language of Mechanisation"
    url: https://observablehq.com/@jmiguelv/language-of-mechanisation
  - name: UKRI URL
    url: https://gtr.ukri.org/projects?ref=AH%2FS01179X%2F1
  - name: Language of Mechanisation data paper
    url: https://openhumanitiesdata.metajnl.com/articles/10.5334/johd.195
---

A multidisciplinary research collaboration between the British Library and the Alan Turing Institute with King's College London, the Universities of Cambridge, East Anglia, Exeter, and London (QMUL), the [Living with Machines](https://www.zooniverse.org/projects/bldigital/living-with-machines/) project aimed to investigate how the introduction of machines into the workplace and landscape changed the lives of ordinary people in the nineteenth century. It had several research strands.

King's Digital Lab worked in collaboration with members of the project team to produce three products in the form notebooks:

1. to produce visualisations of various crowdsourcing tasks on the Zooniverse platform to provide insight into overall activity of annotation across workflows with the goal to make the code used for this project reproducible, so that others can use or adapt it to visualise data from their own crowdsourcing projects;
2. to visualise crowdsourced data from the original digitised newspaper articles, contemporary press directories that described individual newspapers, and classifications by Zooniverse volunteers;
3. to analyse words that changed meaning during the 19th century, examining their connection to the process of mechanisation in British society, specifically focused on terms used to describe vehicles.
