frontend/src/projects/2023-04-01-glow.md, before:

---
title: "Glow3: Global Leadership of Women in Web 3"
name: "Glow3: Global Leadership of Women in Web 3"
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: glow
foundingDate: 2023-04-01
dissolutionDate: 2024-09-30
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/glow-angel-lisa-jamhoury.jpg
  title: Angel sculpture by Lisa Jamhoury.
  description: Angel statue casting shadow on ground.
  width: 1500
  height: 844
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
    slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: FAH King's Culture
    slug: fah-king-s-culture
  - name: King's Global Institute for Women’s Leadership
    slug: king-s-global-institute-for-women-s-leadership
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
  - name: Virtual and Immersive Production Studio
    slug: virtual-and-immersive-production-studio
members:
  - name: Elliott Hall
    slug: elliott-hall
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Lisa Jamhoury
    slug: lisa-jamhoury
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: " Sarah Atkinson"
    slug: sarah-atkinson
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
      slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: Violeta Ayala
    slug: violeta-ayala
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Rebecca Smith
    slug: rebecca-smith
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Yarli Allison
    slug: yarli-allison
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Digital Creativity
urls:
  - name: Faculty Project Page URL
    url: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/research/glow3
  - name: Digital Futures Institute Article
    url: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/professor-sarah-atkinson-womens-seminal-contributions-in-creative-tech-are-often-hidden
  - name:
      KDL Blog post on GLOW3 and empowering artistic innovation by Neil Jakeman
      and Elliott Hall
    url: https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/glow3-blog/
---

GLoW3 was a project and exhibition celebrating and highlighting the contributions of women, trans and non-binary innovators in emerging media. A recurring feature of the many professional stories in this space is the extent to which groundbreaking work is freely appropriated when a commercial potential is identified, leaving innovators feeling disenfranchised, marginalised, and obscuring the instrumental roles they have played during formative periods of technological change. Launched on March 11, 2024 in Bush House Arcade, the GLoW3 exhibition showcased both new artworks and legacy pieces which map key points in the history of digital immersive media over the last four decades. The exhibition was complemented by events and panels during its run and was been organised and curated by Professor Sarah Atkinson as part of a fellowship award.

We were pleased to support this initiative in several ways, most directly through working as _Creative Technologists_ for the four artist residencies funded through the project, supporting them in work with real time engines, WebXR (A-Frame,) Augmented Reality (AR,) and 3D modelling. We have an active Digital Creativity research theme in the Lab and the chance to flex our creative muscles in the service of an important project like GLoW3 was a wonderful opportunity.

Some of the 3D and animation work we participated on can be found in this [Sketchfab collection](https://skfb.ly/oUSJF).

For more information on the project, its development, the artists and their work, read the blog on KDL's website by Neil Jakeman and Elliott Hall: [Empowering artistic innovation](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/glow3-blog/)

Commit message:

chore(projects): update projects data from directus

frontend/src/projects/2023-04-01-glow.md, after:

---
title: "Glow3: Global Leadership of Women in Web 3"
name: "Glow3: Global Leadership of Women in Web 3"
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: glow
foundingDate: 2023-04-01
dissolutionDate: 2024-09-30
creativeWorkStatus: Post-project
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/GLOW3--Digital Futures Institute Article.jpg
  title: Portraits of four artists at Glow3
  description: "From left to right: Yarli Allison, Violeta Ayala, Lisa Jamhoury,
    and Rebecca Smith, in black-and-white portraits against a dark background
    with blue waves."
  width: 1200
  height: 800
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council
    slug: ahrc
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
    slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: FAH King's Culture
    slug: fah-king-s-culture
  - name: King's Global Institute for Women’s Leadership
    slug: king-s-global-institute-for-women-s-leadership
  - name: Faculty of Arts and Humanities
    slug: faculty-of-arts-and-humanities
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
  - name: Virtual and Immersive Production Studio
    slug: virtual-and-immersive-production-studio
members:
  - name: Elliott Hall
    slug: elliott-hall
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Lisa Jamhoury
    slug: lisa-jamhoury
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: " Sarah Atkinson"
    slug: sarah-atkinson
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Culture, Media & Creative Industries
      slug: fah-department-of-culture-media-and-creative-industries
  - name: Violeta Ayala
    slug: violeta-ayala
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
    inOrganisation:
      name: King's Digital Lab
      slug: kdl
  - name: Rebecca Smith
    slug: rebecca-smith
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
  - name: Yarli Allison
    slug: yarli-allison
    roleName: Researcher
    inOrganisation: null
keywords:
  - Digital Creativity
urls:
  - name: Faculty Project Page URL
    url: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/research/glow3
  - name: Digital Futures Institute Article
    url: https://www.kcl.ac.uk/professor-sarah-atkinson-womens-seminal-contributions-in-creative-tech-are-often-hidden
  - name:
      KDL Blog post on GLOW3 and empowering artistic innovation by Neil Jakeman
      and Elliott Hall
    url: https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/glow3-blog/
---

GLoW3 was a project and exhibition celebrating and highlighting the contributions of women, trans and non-binary innovators in emerging media. A recurring feature of the many professional stories in this space is the extent to which groundbreaking work is freely appropriated when a commercial potential is identified, leaving innovators feeling disenfranchised, marginalised, and obscuring the instrumental roles they have played during formative periods of technological change. Launched on March 11, 2024 in Bush House Arcade, the GLoW3 exhibition showcased both new artworks and legacy pieces which map key points in the history of digital immersive media over the last four decades. The exhibition was complemented by events and panels during its run and was been organised and curated by Professor Sarah Atkinson as part of a fellowship award.

We were pleased to support this initiative in several ways, most directly through working as _Creative Technologists_ for the four artist residencies funded through the project, supporting them in work with real time engines, WebXR (A-Frame,) Augmented Reality (AR,) and 3D modelling. We have an active Digital Creativity research theme in the Lab and the chance to flex our creative muscles in the service of an important project like GLoW3 was a wonderful opportunity.

Some of the 3D and animation work we participated on can be found in this [Sketchfab collection](https://skfb.ly/oUSJF).

For more information on the project, its development, the artists and their work, read the blog on KDL's website by Neil Jakeman and Elliott Hall: [Empowering artistic innovation](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/blog/glow3-blog/)
