frontend/src/projects/2025-09-15-federation-of-compute-and-infrastructures-in-the-arts-and-humanities.md, before:

---
draft: true
title: Federation of Compute and Infrastructures in the Arts and Humanities
name: Federation of Compute and Infrastructures in the Arts and Humanities
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: federation-of-compute-and-infrastructures-in-the-arts-and-humanities
foundingDate: 2025-09-15
dissolutionDate: 2026-07-31
creativeWorkStatus: Active
keywords:
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
    slug: uk-research-and-innovation-ukri
departments:
  - name: King's Digital Lab
    slug: kings-digital-lab
  - name: KCL eResearch
    slug: kcl-eresearch
  - name: University of Brighton
    slug: university-of-brighton
members:
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Karina Rodriguez Echavarria
    slug: karina-rodriguez-echavarria
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Brighton
      slug: university-of-brighton
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KDL
      slug: kdl
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KDL
      slug: kdl
  - name: Matt Penn
    slug: matt-penn
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KCL eResearch
      slug: kcl-eresearch
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://aah.culturedigitalskills.org/
---
This project on scoping Arts and Humanities (A&H) federation infrastructure contributes to the community pillar of the [NFCS NetworkPlus project](https://nfcs-networkplus.ac.uk/about/). Its aim is to engage with the A&H communities and stakeholders interested in federation and produce validated requirements for federation based on existing approaches, needs and user stories. It will build on existing insights and efforts from the A&H communities through investigation, surveying the community and community-facing events.

Three areas of interest are at the project’s core:
- eliciting and validating requirements for federation within the A&H communities;
- identifying existing and emerging user stories, where federation is used or will be of benefit to user workflows on Digital Research Infrastructures (DRI);
- investigating skills gaps and opportunities to scale up existing training and paths to access pool of expertise and experience (mainly via the RSE in DH summer school).
  
To investigate the above areas together with colleagues from the University of Brighton and the e-Research unit at King's College London, KDL will contribute to the following core activities of the project:
- conducting a user survey and investigation of user stories on existing federation practices;
- stakeholders’ event enabling participants to contribute best practices, current needs, workflows, and prediction of future needs regarding DRI federation;
- testing a federated service prototype using HPC infrastructure.
  
As an outcome, the project will contribute to the development of a strategic roadmap for a national federated compute service including computation and data federation which supports the research of the A&H communities.

Commit message:

content: add image for federation of compute

frontend/src/projects/2025-09-15-federation-of-compute-and-infrastructures-in-the-arts-and-humanities.md, after:

---
draft: true
title: Federation of Compute and Infrastructures in the Arts and Humanities
name: Federation of Compute and Infrastructures in the Arts and Humanities
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: federation-of-compute-and-infrastructures-in-the-arts-and-humanities
foundingDate: 2025-09-15
dissolutionDate: 2026-07-31
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/FederationOfComputeMarkusWinkler.jpg
  title: Photo by Markus Winkler
  description: Wooden letter tiles scattered on a surface, with the word 'FED' arranged on a green tile rack in the centre.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
keywords:
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
    slug: uk-research-and-innovation-ukri
departments:
  - name: King's Digital Lab
    slug: kings-digital-lab
  - name: KCL eResearch
    slug: kcl-eresearch
  - name: University of Brighton
    slug: university-of-brighton
members:
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Karina Rodriguez Echavarria
    slug: karina-rodriguez-echavarria
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Brighton
      slug: university-of-brighton
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KDL
      slug: kdl
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KDL
      slug: kdl
  - name: Matt Penn
    slug: matt-penn
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KCL eResearch
      slug: kcl-eresearch
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://aah.culturedigitalskills.org/
---

This project on scoping Arts and Humanities (A&H) federation infrastructure contributes to the community pillar of the [NFCS NetworkPlus project](https://nfcs-networkplus.ac.uk/about/). Its aim is to engage with the A&H communities and stakeholders interested in federation and produce validated requirements for federation based on existing approaches, needs and user stories. It will build on existing insights and efforts from the A&H communities through investigation, surveying the community and community-facing events.

Three areas of interest are at the project’s core:

- eliciting and validating requirements for federation within the A&H communities;
- identifying existing and emerging user stories, where federation is used or will be of benefit to user workflows on Digital Research Infrastructures (DRI);
- investigating skills gaps and opportunities to scale up existing training and paths to access pool of expertise and experience (mainly via the RSE in DH summer school).

To investigate the above areas together with colleagues from the University of Brighton and the e-Research unit at King's College London, KDL will contribute to the following core activities of the project:

- conducting a user survey and investigation of user stories on existing federation practices;
- stakeholders’ event enabling participants to contribute best practices, current needs, workflows, and prediction of future needs regarding DRI federation;
- testing a federated service prototype using HPC infrastructure.

As an outcome, the project will contribute to the development of a strategic roadmap for a national federated compute service including computation and data federation which supports the research of the A&H communities.
