frontend/src/projects/2025-09-01-slavery-in-war.md, before:

---
draft: false
title: Slavery in War
name: Slavery in War
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: slavery-in-war
foundingDate: 2025-09-01
dissolutionDate: 2030-08-31
creativeWorkStatus: Active
keywords:
  - name: Machine Learning and AI
    slug: machine-learning-ai
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: Leverhulme Trust
    slug: leverhulme-trust
  - name: King's College London
    slug: kings-college-london
departments:
  - name: The Dickson Poon School of Law
    slug: the-dickson-poon-school-of-law
  - name: War Studies
    slug: war-studies
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: International Politics
    slug: international-politics
  - name: University of Nottingham
    slug: university-of-nottingham
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
members:
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Zihao Lu
    slug: zihao-lu
    roleName: Research Software Designer
  - name: Maeve Ryan
    slug: maeve-ryan
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Simon Tanner
    slug: simon-tanner
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: Andrea Ballatore
    slug: andrea-ballatore
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: Jack McDonald
    slug: jack-mcdonald
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Rosana Garciandia
    slug: rosana-garciandia
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: The Dickson Poon School of Law
      slug: the-dickson-poon-school-of-law
  - name: Rebekka Friedman
    slug: rebekka-friedman
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Jeni Mitchell
    slug: jeni-mitchell
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Leonie Ansems deVries
    slug: leonie-ansems-devries
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Kelsey Carthew
    slug: kelsey-carthew
    roleName: Researcher
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
---

The [Leverhulme Centre for Research on Slavery in War](https://www.slaveryinwar.org/) is the world's first major initiative dedicated to exploring the profound links between slavery and armed conflict. Over the next decade KDL will be working in all four of the research strands to manage and harmonise the data from across disciplines and to develop tools for analysis and visualisation. KDL will help to communicate the project's findings to variety of specialised audiences and publics. As the reseach centre grows we expect to KDL to be called upon for everything from VR development to infographics, from data modelling to building AI pipelines.

Commit message:

content: add image for Slavery in war

frontend/src/projects/2025-09-01-slavery-in-war.md, after:

---
draft: false
title: Slavery in War
name: Slavery in War
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: slavery-in-war
foundingDate: 2025-09-01
dissolutionDate: 2030-08-31
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/SlaveryInWar.jpg
  title: Album for 1835 - Carré enfoncé... 1835 Auguste Raffet (French, 1804–1860) France, 19th century lithograph Twenty-fifth anniversary gift, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis B. Williams Collection 1941.246
  description: A historic black-and-white illustration of soldiers on horseback gathered on a battlefield, with smoke rising in the background.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
keywords:
  - name: Machine Learning and AI
    slug: machine-learning-ai
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: Leverhulme Trust
    slug: leverhulme-trust
  - name: King's College London
    slug: kings-college-london
departments:
  - name: The Dickson Poon School of Law
    slug: the-dickson-poon-school-of-law
  - name: War Studies
    slug: war-studies
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: International Politics
    slug: international-politics
  - name: University of Nottingham
    slug: university-of-nottingham
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
members:
  - name: Neil Jakeman
    slug: neil-jakeman
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Zihao Lu
    slug: zihao-lu
    roleName: Research Software Designer
  - name: Maeve Ryan
    slug: maeve-ryan
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Simon Tanner
    slug: simon-tanner
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: Andrea Ballatore
    slug: andrea-ballatore
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: Jack McDonald
    slug: jack-mcdonald
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Rosana Garciandia
    slug: rosana-garciandia
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: The Dickson Poon School of Law
      slug: the-dickson-poon-school-of-law
  - name: Rebekka Friedman
    slug: rebekka-friedman
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Jeni Mitchell
    slug: jeni-mitchell
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Leonie Ansems deVries
    slug: leonie-ansems-devries
    roleName: Co-Investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Faculty of Social Science & Public Policy
      slug: faculty-of-social-science-public-policy
  - name: Kelsey Carthew
    slug: kelsey-carthew
    roleName: Researcher
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
---

The [Leverhulme Centre for Research on Slavery in War](https://www.slaveryinwar.org/) is the world's first major initiative dedicated to exploring the profound links between slavery and armed conflict. Over the next decade KDL will be working in all four of the research strands to manage and harmonise the data from across disciplines and to develop tools for analysis and visualisation. KDL will help to communicate the project's findings to variety of specialised audiences and publics. As the reseach centre grows we expect to KDL to be called upon for everything from VR development to infographics, from data modelling to building AI pipelines.
