frontend/src/projects/2025-01-16-intelligent-systems-for-screen-archivesv-issa.md, before:

---
draft: true
title: Intelligent Systems for Screen Archives
name: Intelligent Systems for Screen Archives
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: intelligent-systems-for-screen-archivesv-issa
foundingDate: 2025-01-16
dissolutionDate: 2027-06-30
creativeWorkStatus: Active
keywords:
  - name: Machine Learning and AI
    slug: machine-learning-ai
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: British Film Institute
    slug: british-film-institute
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
members:
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Geoffroy Noel
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Stefan
    slug: stefan
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Tiffany Ong
    slug: tiffany-ong
    roleName: Research Software Designer
  - name: Daniel Chavez Herras
    slug: daniel-chavez-herras
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
---

Commit message:

chore: add images to projects that are on live site. there are still projects that are not shown on the live site because they are drafts, which don't have pictures.

frontend/src/projects/2025-01-16-intelligent-systems-for-screen-archivesv-issa.md, after:

---
draft: true
title: Intelligent Systems for Screen Archives
name: Intelligent Systems for Screen Archives
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: intelligent-systems-for-screen-archivesv-issa
foundingDate: 2025-01-16
dissolutionDate: 2027-06-30
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/ISSA.jpg
  title: Photo by Sami TÜRK
  description: Close-up of an old film reel with filmstrip threaded through it in warm light.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
keywords:
  - name: Machine Learning and AI
    slug: machine-learning-ai
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: British Film Institute
    slug: british-film-institute
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
    slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
members:
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Geoffroy Noel
    slug: geoffroy-noel
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Stefan
    slug: stefan
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Miguel Vieira
    slug: miguel-vieira
    roleName: Research Software Engineer
  - name: Tiffany Ong
    slug: tiffany-ong
    roleName: Research Software Designer
  - name: Daniel Chavez Herras
    slug: daniel-chavez-herras
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Digital Humanities
      slug: fah-department-of-digital-humanities
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
---
