frontend/src/projects/2025-04-01-discou-rse-developing-digital-research-technical-professional-d-rtp-leaders.md, before:

---
draft: true
title: "DiscouRSE: Developing digital Research Technical Professional (dRTP) leaders"
name: "DiscouRSE: Developing digital Research Technical Professional (dRTP) leaders"
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: discou-rse-developing-digital-research-technical-professional-d-rtp-leaders
foundingDate: 2025-04-01
dissolutionDate: 2028-09-30
creativeWorkStatus: Active
keywords:
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
    slug: uk-research-and-innovation-ukri
departments:
  - name: King's Digital Lab
    slug: kings-digital-lab
  - name: KCL eResearch
    slug: kcl-eresearch
  - name: University of Manchester
    slug: university-of-manchester
  - name: Society of RSE
    slug: society-of-rse
  - name: Newcastle University
    slug: newcastle-university
  - name: DiRAC
    slug: dirac
  - name: Netherlands eScience Centre
    slug: netherlands-escience-centre
  - name: King's Digital Health Hub
    slug: kings-digital-health-hub
  - name: Software Sustainability Institute
    slug: software-sustainability-institute
  - name: The Alan Turing Institute
    slug: the-alan-turing-institute
  - name: Australian Research Data Commons
    slug: australian-research-data-commons
  - name: CloudKubed
    slug: cloudkubed
  - name: AlcesFlight
    slug: alcesflight
  - name: CCP in Wave Structure Interaction (Deborah Greaves, Plymouth)
    slug: ccp-in-wave-structure-interaction-deborah-greaves-plymouth
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
  - name: Dreaming Spires
    slug: dreaming-spires
  - name: Met Office
    slug: met-office
  - name: NOC
    slug: noc
  - name: Carpentries
    slug: carpentries
  - name: PRISM Community
    slug: prism-community
  - name: University of Edinburgh
    slug: university-of-edinburgh
  - name: UK Ireland DH Association
    slug: uk-ireland-dh-association
  - name: University College London
    slug: university-college-london
  - name: Digital Research Academy
    slug: digital-research-academy
  - name: Dan Katz (USA)
    slug: dan-katz-usa
  - name: UKAEA
    slug: ukaea
  - name: AdvanceHE
    slug: advancehe
  - name: MetaCell
    slug: metacell
  - name: BCS
    slug: bcs
members:
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Jonathan Cooper
    slug: jonathan-cooper
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University College London
      slug: university-college-london
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KDL
      slug: kdl
  - name: Kirsty Pringle
    slug: kirsty-pringle
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Edinburgh
      slug: university-of-edinburgh
  - name: Adrian Harwood
    slug: adrian-harwood
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Manchester
      slug: university-of-manchester
  - name: Dave Horsfall
    slug: dave-horsfall
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Newcastle University
      slug: newcastle-university
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://discourse-network.github.io/
---

Commit message:

chore: add images to projects that are on live site. there are still projects that are not shown on the live site because they are drafts, which don't have pictures.

frontend/src/projects/2025-04-01-discou-rse-developing-digital-research-technical-professional-d-rtp-leaders.md, after:

---
draft: true
title: "DiscouRSE: Developing digital Research Technical Professional (dRTP) leaders"
name: "DiscouRSE: Developing digital Research Technical Professional (dRTP) leaders"
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: discou-rse-developing-digital-research-technical-professional-d-rtp-leaders
foundingDate: 2025-04-01
dissolutionDate: 2028-09-30
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/DiscouRSE (1).jpg
  title: Photo by Linus Nylund on Unsplash
  description: Water surface with ripples and droplets creating circular waves.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
keywords:
  - name: Digital Futures Institute
    slug: digital-futures-institute
funders:
  - name: UK Research and Innovation (UKRI)
    slug: uk-research-and-innovation-ukri
departments:
  - name: King's Digital Lab
    slug: kings-digital-lab
  - name: KCL eResearch
    slug: kcl-eresearch
  - name: University of Manchester
    slug: university-of-manchester
  - name: Society of RSE
    slug: society-of-rse
  - name: Newcastle University
    slug: newcastle-university
  - name: DiRAC
    slug: dirac
  - name: Netherlands eScience Centre
    slug: netherlands-escience-centre
  - name: King's Digital Health Hub
    slug: kings-digital-health-hub
  - name: Software Sustainability Institute
    slug: software-sustainability-institute
  - name: The Alan Turing Institute
    slug: the-alan-turing-institute
  - name: Australian Research Data Commons
    slug: australian-research-data-commons
  - name: CloudKubed
    slug: cloudkubed
  - name: AlcesFlight
    slug: alcesflight
  - name: CCP in Wave Structure Interaction (Deborah Greaves, Plymouth)
    slug: ccp-in-wave-structure-interaction-deborah-greaves-plymouth
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
  - name: Dreaming Spires
    slug: dreaming-spires
  - name: Met Office
    slug: met-office
  - name: NOC
    slug: noc
  - name: Carpentries
    slug: carpentries
  - name: PRISM Community
    slug: prism-community
  - name: University of Edinburgh
    slug: university-of-edinburgh
  - name: UK Ireland DH Association
    slug: uk-ireland-dh-association
  - name: University College London
    slug: university-college-london
  - name: Digital Research Academy
    slug: digital-research-academy
  - name: Dan Katz (USA)
    slug: dan-katz-usa
  - name: UKAEA
    slug: ukaea
  - name: AdvanceHE
    slug: advancehe
  - name: MetaCell
    slug: metacell
  - name: BCS
    slug: bcs
members:
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Jonathan Cooper
    slug: jonathan-cooper
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University College London
      slug: university-college-london
  - name: Arianna Ciula
    slug: arianna-ciula
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: KDL
      slug: kdl
  - name: Kirsty Pringle
    slug: kirsty-pringle
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Edinburgh
      slug: university-of-edinburgh
  - name: Adrian Harwood
    slug: adrian-harwood
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: University of Manchester
      slug: university-of-manchester
  - name: Dave Horsfall
    slug: dave-horsfall
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: Newcastle University
      slug: newcastle-university
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
urls:
  - name: Project URL
    url: https://discourse-network.github.io/
---
