frontend/src/projects/2026-01-16-unhousing-restitution-unrest-african-moving-image-heritage-between-displacement-and-return.md, before:

---
draft: true
title: Unhousing Restitution (UNREST). African moving image heritage between
  displacement and return
name: Unhousing Restitution (UNREST). African moving image heritage between
  displacement and return
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: unhousing-restitution-unrest-african-moving-image-heritage-between-displacement-and-return
foundingDate: 2026-01-16
dissolutionDate: 2028-01-15
creativeWorkStatus: Active
keywords:
  - name: Indigenous Digital Humanities
    slug: indigenous-digital-humanities
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
    slug: arts-and-humanities-research-council-ahrc
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Film Studies
    slug: fah-department-of-film-studies
  - name: Oxford University
    slug: oxford-university
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
  - name: University of Liverpool
    slug: university-of-liverpool
members:
  - name: Samantha Callaghan
    slug: samantha-callaghan
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Erica Carter
    slug: erica-carter
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Film Studies
      slug: fah-department-of-film-studies
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
---

Commit message:

content: add image for UNREST

frontend/src/projects/2026-01-16-unhousing-restitution-unrest-african-moving-image-heritage-between-displacement-and-return.md, after:

---
draft: true
title: Unhousing Restitution (UNREST). African moving image heritage between
  displacement and return
name: Unhousing Restitution (UNREST). African moving image heritage between
  displacement and return
tags:
  - projects
alternateName: null
slug: unhousing-restitution-unrest-african-moving-image-heritage-between-displacement-and-return
foundingDate: 2026-01-16
dissolutionDate: 2028-01-15
creativeWorkStatus: Active
feature:
  image: /assets/images/projects/UNRESTDerekLee.jpg
  title: Photo by Derek Lee
  description: An abandoned sofa sits in an empty, overgrown lot beside a damaged building, with construction machinery and industrial structures in the background.
  width: 1200
  height: 800
keywords:
  - name: Indigenous Digital Humanities
    slug: indigenous-digital-humanities
funders:
  - name: Arts and Humanities Research Council (AHRC)
    slug: arts-and-humanities-research-council-ahrc
departments:
  - name: FAH Department of Film Studies
    slug: fah-department-of-film-studies
  - name: Oxford University
    slug: oxford-university
  - name: King's College, London
    slug: kings-college-london
  - name: University of Liverpool
    slug: university-of-liverpool
members:
  - name: Samantha Callaghan
    slug: samantha-callaghan
    roleName: Research Software Analyst
  - name: Erica Carter
    slug: erica-carter
    roleName: Principal investigator
    inOrganisation:
      name: FAH Department of Film Studies
      slug: fah-department-of-film-studies
sla:
  start: null
  end: null
---
