frontend/src/themes/data-visualisation.md, before:

---
title: Data Visualisation
tags:
  - theme
  - Data Visualisation
excerpt: >
  The Data & Processes Visualisation Research Theme explores the use of visual tools and techniques to view and engage with complex datasets and processes in ways that are intuitive, informative and inspiring.
---

The Data & Processes Visualisation Research Theme explores the use of visual tools and techniques to view and engage with complex datasets and processes in ways that are intuitive, informative and inspiring. This theme delves into the methodologies behind translating data and processes into visual formats that enhance understanding with a purpose, support analysis and interpretation, and drive communication and storytelling. It addresses challenges such as visual perception, interactivity, accessibility, data literacy and the ethical implications of representing and knowing with data. Research focuses on creating innovative, dynamic visualisations that make emerge the constructiveness, fuzziness and relationality of data as well as make information more accessible to diverse audiences while maintaining transparency, accuracy and clarity. This theme is particularly relevant where data-driven insights are critical for impactful outcomes.

Commit message:

feat: added images and alt text to each RT template, deleted the figcaptions

frontend/src/themes/data-visualisation.md, after:

---
title: Data Visualisation
tags:
  - theme
  - Data Visualisation
excerpt: >
  The Data & Processes Visualisation Research Theme explores the use of visual tools and techniques to view and engage with complex datasets and processes in ways that are intuitive, informative and inspiring.
feature:
  image: /assets/images/themes/data-visualisation.jpg
  title:
  description: >
    A textured surface with rough, broken edges reveals geometric outlines of buildings in blue and red on a grid-like background, symbolizing the intersection of architecture, data visualization, and urban planning.
---

The Data & Processes Visualisation Research Theme explores the use of visual tools and techniques to view and engage with complex datasets and processes in ways that are intuitive, informative and inspiring. This theme delves into the methodologies behind translating data and processes into visual formats that enhance understanding with a purpose, support analysis and interpretation, and drive communication and storytelling. It addresses challenges such as visual perception, interactivity, accessibility, data literacy and the ethical implications of representing and knowing with data. Research focuses on creating innovative, dynamic visualisations that make emerge the constructiveness, fuzziness and relationality of data as well as make information more accessible to diverse audiences while maintaining transparency, accuracy and clarity. This theme is particularly relevant where data-driven insights are critical for impactful outcomes.
