frontend/src/themes/indigenous-digital-humanities.md, before:

---
title: Indigenous Digital Humanities
tags:
  - theme
  - Indigenous Digital Humanities
excerpt: >
  The Indigenous Digital Humanities Research Theme highlights the additional
  challenges of how to ethically work with Indigenous peoples and material in
  Digital Humanities research.
---

The Indigenous Digital Humanities Research Theme highlights the additional
challenges of how to ethically work with Indigenous peoples and material in
Digital Humanities research. Its primary objectives involve:

- reconnecting communities to their
  [taonga](https://maoridictionary.co.nz/search?idiom=&phrase=&proverb=&loan=&histLoanWords=&keywords=taonga) and
  [mātauranga](https://maoridictionary.co.nz/search?idiom=&phrase=&proverb=&loan=&histLoanWords=&keywords=matauranga) held in the UK (and possibly Europe);
- fostering relationships between holding institutions, research groups and
  source communities;
- fostering joint, co-developed research, digital, non-digital and hybrid; and
- exploring options for producing culturally appropriate digital and analogue
  outputs/artifacts, beyond traditional academic outputs of monographs and papers.

Commit message:

feat: added images and alt text to each RT template, deleted the figcaptions

frontend/src/themes/indigenous-digital-humanities.md, after:

---
title: Indigenous Digital Humanities
tags:
  - theme
  - Indigenous Digital Humanities
excerpt: >
  The Indigenous Digital Humanities Research Theme highlights the additional
  challenges of how to ethically work with Indigenous peoples and material in
  Digital Humanities research.
feature:
  image: /assets/images/themes/indigenous.jpg
  title:
  description: >
    A close-up image of interwoven red and black rods tied with thin strands, creating a geometric pattern that represents structure and connection.
---

The Indigenous Digital Humanities Research Theme highlights the additional
challenges of how to ethically work with Indigenous peoples and material in
Digital Humanities research. Its primary objectives involve:

- reconnecting communities to their
  [taonga](https://maoridictionary.co.nz/search?idiom=&phrase=&proverb=&loan=&histLoanWords=&keywords=taonga) and
  [mātauranga](https://maoridictionary.co.nz/search?idiom=&phrase=&proverb=&loan=&histLoanWords=&keywords=matauranga) held in the UK (and possibly Europe);
- fostering relationships between holding institutions, research groups and
  source communities;
- fostering joint, co-developed research, digital, non-digital and hybrid; and
- exploring options for producing culturally appropriate digital and analogue
  outputs/artifacts, beyond traditional academic outputs of monographs and papers.
