frontend/src/themes/machine-learning-ai.md, before:

---
title: Machine Learning and AI
tags:
  - theme
  - Machine Learning and AI
excerpt: >
  The AI/ML research theme aims to integrate AI and ML throughout the
  software development lifecycle, fostering innovation and knowledge sharing
  across critical, analytical, and practical RSE-driven research.
feature:
  image: /assets/images/themes/unsplash-butterfly-ai.jpg
  title: A computer circuit board with a brain on it, by Steve Johnson on Unsplash
  description: >
    A computer circuit board with a brain-like pattern on a blue background.
---

The Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning research theme focuses on creating
a virtual cycle within KDL’s Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) around ML and
AI that goes beyond single projects solutions across the triangle of critical,
analytical and practical RSE-driven research. Its primary objectives include
leveraging past experiences and emerging best practices to guide project scoping,
planning, and execution, formalising and sharing AI/ML knowledge and guidance
internally and globally, innovating new computational methods and software tools
for AI/ML research.

Commit message:

fix(themes): updated the image title & desc on the machine learning theme page.

frontend/src/themes/machine-learning-ai.md, after:

---
title: Machine Learning and AI
tags:
  - theme
  - Machine Learning and AI
excerpt: >
  The AI/ML research theme aims to integrate AI and ML throughout the
  software development lifecycle, fostering innovation and knowledge sharing
  across critical, analytical, and practical RSE-driven research.
feature:
  image: /assets/images/themes/unsplash-butterfly-ai.jpg
  title: 'A colorful butterfly resting on a branch. Credit: Nidia Dias for Visualising AI.'
  description: >
    An rectangular frame superimposed over the image of a colorful butterfly resting on a branch, surrounded by grass and a gray sky.
---

The Artificial Intelligence/Machine Learning research theme focuses on creating
a virtual cycle within KDL’s Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) around ML and
AI that goes beyond single projects solutions across the triangle of critical,
analytical and practical RSE-driven research. Its primary objectives include
leveraging past experiences and emerging best practices to guide project scoping,
planning, and execution, formalising and sharing AI/ML knowledge and guidance
internally and globally, innovating new computational methods and software tools
for AI/ML research.
