frontend/src/slides/2025-venice-keynote.md, before:

---
title: What does it mean to sustain a digital research infrastructure?
event:
  title: Classical Texts in Digital Media 2 - Digital Methods for Editing and Studying Ancient Texts
  url:
tags: slides
slide:
  loop: true
  theme: simple
  slideNumber: true
draft: true
---

{% slide %}

### Starting from the end and going in circles?

## What does it mean to sustain a digital research infrastructure?

<hr>

### Learnings from King's Digital Lab

Arianna Ciula <br>
_contributions from past and present KDL team_

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Outline

<ul>
  <li class="fragment">Status <span class="fragment highlight-red">or <em>Starting from the End</em></span></li>
  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">King's Digital Lab mission, history & set up</li>
    <li class="fragment">Archining & Sustainability programme</li>
  </ul>
  <li class="fragment">What is a Digital Research Infrastructure in our context?</li>
  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">Collaboration & Processes <span class="fragment highlight-red">or <em>Going in Circles</em></span></li>
    <li class="fragment">Assessment of Digital Outputs</li>
    <li class="fragment">Research Themes</li>
  </ul>
    <li class="fragment">Conference highlights</li>
    <li class="fragment">Conclusions & questions</li>
</ul>

<aside class="notes">

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Brief history

- Digital Humanities at King's College London (UK)
- [Department of Digital Humanities](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/ddh) (2011-)
  - 7 Masters and 2 Undergraduate degrees​
  - PhD programme​
  - ~70 staff including researchers and teaching fellows
- [King's Digital Lab](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/) (2015-)

<aside class="notes">

- Over 35 years of activity, against a background of rapid innovation and change in Humanities Computing and Digital Humanities​
- Centre for Computing in the Humanities (1991) - Prof. Harold Short - and Centre for eResearch - Prof. Sheial Anderson

</aside>
{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## King's Digital Lab

[Team](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/about/team/) of 13 permanent staff + Research Affiliates/Visiting fellows delivering research services and/or (co-)leading research in collaboration with researchers and research organisations

- [Partners and funders](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/about/partners-and-funders/)

- Research domains: Arts, (Digital) Humanities, Cultural Heritage and Social Sciences
- [Research themes](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/research-themes/): Digital Creativity, AI/ML, Indigenous DH, Data Viz

<aside class="notes">
- roles: Lab & Project Managers, Analysts, Developers, Designers, Systems Administrator​ 
- under-written internally with 50% annual cost recovery model

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Starting from the End

Inherited over 100 completed projects with no funding

- [Archiving and Sustainability Programme](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/about/archiving-and-sustainability/)
- Examples of mantained ones (under SLA)
  - editions e.g. [IOSPE](https://iospe.kcl.ac.uk/)
  - archives e.g. [Stonemaking](https://artofmaking.ac.uk/)
  - prosophographies e.g. [DPRR](https://romanrepublic.ac.uk/)
  - gazeteers e.g. [Cyprus heritage](https://cyprusgazetteer.org/)
  - corpora
  - data structures

<aside class="notes">

- (explain sla)
- selection of project types/examples relevant for the topics of the conference
- DECIDE whether to add VENN DIAGRAMM

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Epigraphy project example

- Editions [_Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania_](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/inscriptions-of-roman-tripolitania/)
  - [2009](https://inslib.kcl.ac.uk/irt2009/) - reduced functionalities
  - [2021](https://irt2021.inslib.kcl.ac.uk/en/)
    - [code](https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/ircyr-efes) - KDL & EPIDOC community
    - [other data](https://doi.org/10.18742/c.6002275.v1) - editor/s, insitution/s & funder/s
      - authority lists eg. indexes
      - EFES software architecture
      - images - photographs of inscriptions
      - TEI-EPIDOC XML

<aside class="notes">

-

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## What is a Digital Research Infrastructure in our context?

DRI in the Arts & Humanities, in a UK University and with a specific business model - how to collaborate with us and how do we collaborate?

<img src="/assets/images/slides/venice-infrastructure.jpg"
    alt="KDL SDLC cycle"
  style="width:600px">

<small>Emmanuel Lafont / BBC</small>

<aside class="notes">

- focus on processes and expertise (not so much on methods and resources)
- image from https://www.bbc.co.uk/future/article/20250324-the-ancient-forest-that-supports-venice

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

### Collaboration guidance and process

[Questionnaire](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/solutions/resources/guidelines-project-partners/) and [FAQ](hhttps://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/faqs/)

<img src="/assets/images/slides/sdlc.png"
    alt="KDL SDLC cycle"
  style="width:800px">

<aside class="notes">

- if you need to collaborate there is some guidance
- no matter how big or small projects

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

### Collaboration guidance and process

[Project templates](https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/sdlc-for-rse/wiki/)

<img src="/assets/images/slides/path-lkshay.png"
    alt="KDL SDLC cycle"
  style="width:300px">

<small>Lkshay Jain on @pexels</small>

<aside class="notes">

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

### Collaboration process

[Ciula, Mellen and Vieira (2024)](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/slides/2024-lisbon-dariah/)

- Incremental building and reviews
- SDLC

![SDLC increments](/assets/images/slides/sdlc-increments.jpg)

<aside class="notes">

- ADD Zoom to evolutionary cycle if possible

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Project example

[_Crossreads: Text, materiality and multiculturalism at the crossroads of the ancient Mediterranean_](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/crossreads/)

[Project Review Record](https://doc.clickup.com/26475560/p/h/t7z18-257995/70db5f4ce53cff9)

<div class="r-stack">
  <img
    class="fragment fade-out"
    data-fragment-index="0"
    src="/assets/images/slides/crossreads-requirements.png"
    style="width:300px"
    alt="CROSSREADS requirements"
/>

<img
  class="fragment"
  data-fragment-index="0"
  src="/assets/images/slides/crossreads-requirements1.jpg"
  alt="CROSSREADS requirements table view"
/>

</div>

<aside class="notes">

- Requirements

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

[Inscription example](https://kingsdigitallab.github.io/corpus-building/inscription/ISic000298) (not public yet)

<img class="fragment"
    src="/assets/images/slides/crossreads-petrography.png"
    alt="Petrography analysis workflow"
  style="width:700px"
/>

<aside class="notes">

- RSE contribution via petrography notebooks
- ca. 6,000 ancient inscriptions of which ca. 600 subjected to petrographic non-destructive analysis resulting in at least 2,500 pXRF spectra and ca. 200 to micro-destructive analysis (XRD - each with 1-10 mineral phases)
- Solution architecture of Python Colab and Jupiter notebooks to provide some degree of automation and verification of a multi-analytical approach

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Assessment of Digital Outputs

  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">UK context</li>
    <li class="fragment">RSE contribution</li>
    <li class="fragment"><a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3361579">KDL checklist</a></li>
  </ul>

<aside class="notes">

- mention REF
- ADD image?

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Development & Innovation

[Research Themes](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/research-themes/)

<img 
    src="/assets/images/slides/digital-creativity-rt.jpg"
    alt="Digital Creativity research theme"
  style="width:700px"
/>

<aside class="notes">

-

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Conference highlights?

<aside class="notes">

- might take out if not needed

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Reflections

  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">Careeer pipelines</li>
    <li class="fragment">Labour conditions</li>
    <li class="fragment">Research cultures</li>
    <li class="fragment">Communities</li>
  </ul>

<aside class="notes">

- it takes people and processes to sustain a research infrastructure
- but also an adequate research culture
- mention recent paper about reframing failure
- re points 1 above: data, systems AND processes; design and analysis
- re point 2: mention carreer pathways
- re point 3: mention conservative / discriminatory academic cultures, promotion systems, evaluation frameworks, funding streams, attitues, behaviours
- ADD image?

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Thank you

### Questions?

#### Contact

- Arianna Ciula: [`arianna.ciula@kcl.ac.uk`](mailto:arianna.ciula@kcl.ac.uk)
- King's Digital Lab: [`kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk`](mailto:kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk)

{% endslide %}

Commit message:

Correct DDH info, isic inscription and notes

frontend/src/slides/2025-venice-keynote.md, after:

---
title: What does it mean to sustain a digital research infrastructure?
event:
  title: Classical Texts in Digital Media 2 - Digital Methods for Editing and Studying Ancient Texts
  url:
tags: slides
slide:
  loop: true
  theme: simple
  slideNumber: true
draft: true
---

{% slide %}

### Starting from the end and going in circles?

## What does it mean to sustain a digital research infrastructure?

<hr>

### Learnings from King's Digital Lab

Arianna Ciula <br>
_contributions from past and present KDL team_

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Outline

<ul>
  <li class="fragment">Status <span class="fragment highlight-red">or <em>Starting from the End</em></span></li>
  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">King's Digital Lab mission, history & set up</li>
    <li class="fragment">Archining & Sustainability programme</li>
  </ul>
  <li class="fragment">What is a Digital Research Infrastructure in our context?</li>
  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">Collaboration & Processes <span class="fragment highlight-red">or <em>Going in Circles</em></span></li>
    <li class="fragment">Assessment of Digital Outputs</li>
    <li class="fragment">Research Themes</li>
  </ul>
    <li class="fragment">Conference highlights</li>
    <li class="fragment">Conclusions & questions</li>
</ul>

<aside class="notes">

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Brief history

- Digital Humanities at King's College London (UK)
- [Department of Digital Humanities](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/ddh) (2011-)
  - 7 Masters and 1 Undergraduate degrees
  - PhD programme​
  - ~70 staff including researchers and education-focused lecturers
- [King's Digital Lab](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/) (2015-)

<aside class="notes">

- Over 35 years of activity, against a background of rapid innovation and change in Humanities Computing and Digital Humanities​
- Centre for Computing in the Humanities (1991) - Prof. Harold Short - and Centre for eResearch - Prof. Sheial Anderson

</aside>
{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## King's Digital Lab

[Team](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/about/team/) of 13 permanent staff + Research Affiliates/Visiting fellows delivering research services and/or (co-)leading research in collaboration with researchers and research organisations

- [Partners and funders](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/about/partners-and-funders/)

- Research domains: Arts, (Digital) Humanities, Cultural Heritage and Social Sciences
- [Research themes](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/research-themes/): Digital Creativity, AI/ML, Indigenous DH, Data Viz

<aside class="notes">
- roles: Lab & Project Managers, Analysts, Developers, Designers, Systems Administrator​ 
- under-written internally with 50% annual cost recovery model

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Starting from the End

Inherited over 100 completed projects with no funding

- [Archiving and Sustainability Programme](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/about/archiving-and-sustainability/)
- Examples of mantained ones (under SLA)
  - editions e.g. [IOSPE](https://iospe.kcl.ac.uk/)
  - archives e.g. [Stonemaking](https://artofmaking.ac.uk/)
  - prosophographies e.g. [DPRR](https://romanrepublic.ac.uk/)
  - gazeteers e.g. [Cyprus heritage](https://cyprusgazetteer.org/)
  - corpora
  - data structures

<aside class="notes">

- (explain sla)
- selection of project types/examples relevant for the topics of the conference
- DECIDE whether to add VENN DIAGRAMM

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Epigraphy project example

- Editions [_Inscriptions of Roman Tripolitania_](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/inscriptions-of-roman-tripolitania/)
  - [2009](https://inslib.kcl.ac.uk/irt2009/) - reduced functionalities
  - [2021](https://irt2021.inslib.kcl.ac.uk/en/)
    - [code](https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/ircyr-efes) - KDL & [EPIDOC community](https://github.com/EpiDoc/EFES)
    - [other data](https://doi.org/10.18742/c.6002275.v1) - editor/s, insitution/s & funder/s
      - authority lists eg. indexes
      - EFES software architecture
      - images - photographs of inscriptions
      - TEI-EPIDOC XML

<aside class="notes">

- TEI/XML EpiDoc schema regularly improved by the community
  https://epidoc.stoa.org/
- Transformative for the field edition and publication framework EFES for ancient / complex texts:
  https://github.com/EpiDoc/EFES
  https://wiki.digitalclassicist.org/EpiDoc_Front-End_Services
  enables researchers to work at speed, alone, and also to share work with others before publication
- above notes summarised from https://zenodo.org/records/15083522

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## What is a Digital Research Infrastructure in our context?

DRI in the Arts & Humanities, in a UK University and with a specific business model - how to collaborate with us and how do we collaborate?

<img src="/assets/images/slides/venice-infrastructure.jpg"
    alt="KDL SDLC cycle"
  style="width:600px">

<small>Emmanuel Lafont / BBC</small>

<aside class="notes">

- focus on processes and expertise (not so much on methods and resources)
- image from https://www.bbc.co.uk/future/article/20250324-the-ancient-forest-that-supports-venice
- watch the Crazy engineering of Venice at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=77omYd0JOeA

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

### Collaboration guidance and process

[Questionnaire](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/solutions/resources/guidelines-project-partners/) and [FAQ](hhttps://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/faqs/)

<img src="/assets/images/slides/sdlc.png"
    alt="KDL SDLC cycle"
  style="width:800px">

<aside class="notes">

- if you need to collaborate there is some guidance
- no matter how big or small projects

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

### Collaboration guidance and process

[Project templates](https://github.com/kingsdigitallab/sdlc-for-rse/wiki/)

<img src="/assets/images/slides/path-lkshay.png"
    alt="KDL SDLC cycle"
  style="width:300px">

<small>Lkshay Jain on @pexels</small>

<aside class="notes">

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

### Collaboration process

[Ciula, Mellen and Vieira (2024)](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/slides/2024-lisbon-dariah/)

- Incremental building and reviews
- SDLC

![SDLC increments](/assets/images/slides/sdlc-increments.jpg)

<aside class="notes">

- ADD Zoom to evolutionary cycle if possible

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Project example

[_Crossreads: Text, materiality and multiculturalism at the crossroads of the ancient Mediterranean_](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/crossreads/)

[Project Review Record](https://doc.clickup.com/26475560/p/h/t7z18-257995/70db5f4ce53cff9)

<div class="r-stack">
  <img
    class="fragment fade-out"
    data-fragment-index="0"
    src="/assets/images/slides/crossreads-requirements.png"
    style="width:300px"
    alt="CROSSREADS requirements"
/>

<img
  class="fragment"
  data-fragment-index="0"
  src="/assets/images/slides/crossreads-requirements1.jpg"
  alt="CROSSREADS requirements table view"
/>

</div>

<aside class="notes">

- Requirements

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

[Inscription example](https://kingsdigitallab.github.io/corpus-building/inscription/ISic002945) (not public yet)

<img class="fragment"
    src="/assets/images/slides/crossreads-petrography.png"
    alt="Petrography analysis workflow"
  style="width:700px"
/>

<aside class="notes">

- RSE contribution via petrography notebooks
- ca. 6,000 ancient inscriptions of which ca. 600 subjected to petrographic non-destructive analysis resulting in at least 2,500 pXRF spectra and ca. 200 to micro-destructive analysis (XRD - each with 1-10 mineral phases)
- Solution architecture of Python Colab and Jupiter notebooks to provide some degree of automation and verification of a multi-analytical approach

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Assessment of Digital Outputs

  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">UK context</li>
    <li class="fragment">RSE contribution</li>
    <li class="fragment"><a href="https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.3361579">KDL checklist</a></li>
  </ul>

<aside class="notes">

- mention REF
- ADD image?

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Development & Innovation

[Research Themes](https://kdl.kcl.ac.uk/projects/research-themes/)

<img 
    src="/assets/images/slides/digital-creativity-rt.jpg"
    alt="Digital Creativity research theme"
  style="width:700px"
/>

<aside class="notes">

- Note re AI/ML: importance for historians and other humanities researchers to engage in the use of AI / ML (including specific pipelines like the one tested for Ithaca)
- Example from Ithaca https://github.com/google-deepmind/ithaca and in Nature https://www.nature.com/articles/s41586-022-04448-z
- fig 1 Assael, Y., Sommerschield, T., Shillingford, B. et al. Restoring and attributing ancient texts using deep neural networks. Nature 603, 280–283 (2022). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41586-022-04448-z

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Conference highlights?

<aside class="notes">

- might take out if not needed

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Reflections

  <ul>
    <li class="fragment">Careeer pipelines</li>
    <li class="fragment">Labour conditions</li>
    <li class="fragment">Research cultures</li>
    <li class="fragment">Communities</li>
  </ul>

<aside class="notes">

- it takes people and processes to sustain a research infrastructure
- but also an adequate research culture
- mention recent paper about reframing failure
- re points 1 above: data, systems AND processes; design and analysis
- re point 2: mention carreer pathways
- re point 3: mention conservative / discriminatory academic cultures, promotion systems, evaluation frameworks, funding streams, attitues, behaviours
- ADD image?

</aside>

{% endslide %}

{% slide %}

## Thank you

### Questions?

#### Contact

- Arianna Ciula: [`arianna.ciula@kcl.ac.uk`](mailto:arianna.ciula@kcl.ac.uk)
- King's Digital Lab: [`kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk`](mailto:kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk)

{% endslide %}
