frontend/src/privacy-policy.md, before:

---
layout: layouts/base.njk
title: Privacy policy
tags: resource
---

## Privacy statement

King’s College London (KCL) through its department King's Digital Lab (KDL) is committed to protecting your privacy.

This statement is made in the light of the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998 and the General Data Protection Regulation, in order to alert you to the data processing practices which will govern the processing of your data.

This privacy statement should be considered subordinate to the organisational KCL privacy statement available [here](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/terms/privacy.aspx), though KDL’s direct interaction with personal data is less broad.

If you have any queries about this statement please contact:

Information Compliance team  
King's College London - Waterloo Campus  
Room 5.20 James Clerk Maxwell Building  
57 Waterloo Road  
London  
SE1 8WA

email: [kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk](mailto:kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk)

## 1 How do we collect information?

We will obtain personal information from you when you enquire about our activities or report a problem with a service that we maintain through using an online [form](https://www.kdl.kcl.ac.uk/contact-us/) or through direct contact via an e-mail or conventional mail or otherwise provide us with personal information. We may also receive information about you from third parties, for example from a friend who wants to tell you about our website.

## 2 What information do we collect?

The types of information collected might include names, e-mail address, institutional postal address, telephone number and your research interests. Via third-parties, for instance Google, we will have limited access to see IP addresses from which our website has been accessed (see Cookies, below).

## 3 How do we use this information?

We will use your personal information to provide you with the services, products or information you have requested and for administration purposes (e.g. College reporting activities). We may need to share your information with our service providers, associated organisations and agents for these purposes.

KDL may use your personal data to resolve technical issues you encounter, to respond to your requests for assistance, and to repair and improve our service.

## 4 How long do we retain this information for?

In the case of research projects we will retain correspondence indefinitely, as it constitutes a record of works undertaken and may be important for legitimate business purposes of demonstrating meeting contractual obligations. For further information on KCL's data retention, please see this [document](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/aboutkings/orgstructure/ps/audit/records/retention/rdrs-v7.pdf).

## 5 Do we use 'Cookies'?

Cookies are text files, which identify a user's computer to our server. Cookies in themselves do not identify the individual user, just the computer used. The KDL website uses cookies for collecting user information.

The KDL website uses persistent cookies - these are used to track returning visitors. They expire after 12 months and enable us to compare website traffic from month to month. To see more about our cookies - visit the detailed [cookie use page](/cookie-use/).

This website uses Google analytics to help us understand our web traffic. This does not permit storage of an individual's personal data, but will recognise repeated website visits from the same internet address. KDL's policy is to retain this information for a period of 5 years to effectively monitor website traffic and website impact and outreach.

You can reject cookies. Most browsers allow you to refuse cookies - consult the help section of the browser toolbar. Information on controlling cookies or rejecting cookies is available from several web sites, e.g. [http://www.aboutcookies.org](http://www.aboutcookies.org)

## 6 How do we protect personal information?

We also take appropriate measures to ensure that the information disclosed to us is kept secure, accurate and up to date and kept only for so long as is necessary for the purposes for which it is used. These measures include, but are not limited to, password protected server access, limited firewall access to servers, and a regular server and software update and patch cycle to mitigate against evolving security risks.

## 7 Will we disclose the information we collect to outside parties?

We may store some of your information with external service providers.

To ensure we provide the best user experience we may use the services of external providers for project management tools and workflow. We use ActiveCollab to track project progress and record tasks and issues. ActiveCollab’s security measures can be found here: [https://activecollab.com/security](https://activecollab.com/security)

Some personal information may also be stored securely using Google's Google Drive service. Their Privacy Policy can be viewed here: [https://policies.google.com/privacy](https://policies.google.com/privacy)

We may also need to disclose your information if required to do so by law.

## 8 Your consent

By providing us with your personal data, including sensitive personal data such as on your health, you consent to the collection and use of any information you provide in accordance with the above purposes and this privacy statement.

If you wish to withdraw consent for your data to be stored as described above, please contact us at the e-mail address: kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk, and we will take action to remove your details from our storage and from third-party storage if applicable. Please note that once requested, this may take up to 28 days to action fully and we cannot change cached search results that appear in search engines such as Google, Bing or Yahoo etc.

## 9 Right of access

You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold about you (for which we may charge a small fee) and to have any inaccuracies in your information corrected.

## 10 Changes

If your personal details change, please help us to keep your information up to date by notifying us at the above address.

We reserve the right to amend this privacy statement. If we do so, we will post notice of the change on our website and you will be deemed to have accepted such changes.

## 11 Marketing

If you register an interest with KDL you will be given the opportunity to opt in to receive future marketing communications. This is done at the point where your personal information is first collected.

If you register to attend an event or you apply to King’s College London, your personal information might be passed to us by third parties to fulfil your request. As part of this process you can opt-in to receive marketing communications.

Within any marketing communications you will be provided with a simple and transparent way to unsubscribe. Any changes you request to how your personal information is processed for the purposes of marketing and/or the provision of service updates will be acted on promptly.

Commit message:

refactor(frontend): update links and rewrite the section about cookies

frontend/src/privacy-policy.md, after:

---
layout: layouts/base.njk
title: Privacy policy
tags: resource
---

## Privacy statement

King’s College London (KCL) through its department King's Digital Lab (KDL) is committed to protecting your privacy.

This statement is made in the light of the requirements of the Data Protection Act 1998 and the General Data Protection Regulation, in order to alert you to the data processing practices which will govern the processing of your data.

This privacy statement should be considered subordinate to the organisational KCL privacy statement available [here](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/terms/privacy.aspx), though KDL’s direct interaction with personal data is less broad.

If you have any queries about this statement please contact:

Information Compliance team  
King's College London - Waterloo Campus  
Room 5.20 James Clerk Maxwell Building  
57 Waterloo Road  
London  
SE1 8WA

email: [kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk](mailto:kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk)

## 1 How do we collect information?

We will obtain personal information from you when you enquire about our activities or report a problem with a service that we maintain through using our online [forms](/contact-us/) or through direct contact via an e-mail or conventional mail or otherwise provide us with personal information. We may also receive information about you from third parties, for example from a friend who wants to tell you about our website.

## 2 What information do we collect?

The types of information collected might include names, e-mail address, institutional postal address, telephone number and your research interests. Via third-parties, we will have limited access to see IP addresses from which our website has been accessed (see Cookies, below).

## 3 How do we use this information?

We will use your personal information to provide you with the services, products or information you have requested and for administration purposes. We may need to share your information with our service providers, associated organisations and agents for these purposes.

KDL may use your personal data to resolve technical issues you encounter, to respond to your requests for assistance, and to repair and improve our service.

## 4 How long do we retain this information for?

In the case of research projects we will retain correspondence indefinitely, as it constitutes a record of works undertaken and may be important for legitimate business purposes of demonstrating meeting contractual obligations. For further information on KCL's data retention, please see this [document](https://www.kcl.ac.uk/aboutkings/orgstructure/ps/audit/records/retention/rdrs-v7.pdf).

## 5 Do we use 'Cookies'?

Cookies are text files, which identify a user's computer to our server. Cookies in themselves do not identify the individual user, just the computer used. The KDL website does not use cookies for collecting user information.

## 6 How do we protect personal information?

We also take appropriate measures to ensure that the information disclosed to us is kept secure, accurate and up to date and kept only for so long as is necessary for the purposes for which it is used. These measures include, but are not limited to, password protected server access, limited firewall access to servers, and a regular server and software update and patch cycle to mitigate against evolving security risks.

## 7 Will we disclose the information we collect to outside parties?

We may store some of your information with external service providers.

To ensure we provide the best user experience we may use the services of external providers for project management tools and workflow. We use ClickUp to track project progress and record tasks and issues. ClickUp's security measures can be found here: https://clickup.com/security](https://clickup.com/security)

Some personal information may also be stored securely using Microsoft's Sharepoint service. Their Privacy Policy can be viewed here: [https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-onedrive-blog/gdpr-compliancy-with-onedrive-and-sharepoint/ba-p/191126](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/microsoft-onedrive-blog/gdpr-compliancy-with-onedrive-and-sharepoint/ba-p/191126)

We may also need to disclose your information if required to do so by law.

## 8 Your consent

By providing us with your personal data, including sensitive personal data such as on your health, you consent to the collection and use of any information you provide in accordance with the above purposes and this privacy statement.

If you wish to withdraw consent for your data to be stored as described above, please contact us at the e-mail address: [kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk](mailto:kdl-info@kcl.ac.uk), and we will take action to remove your details from our storage and from third-party storage if applicable. Please note that once requested, this may take up to 28 days to action fully and we cannot change cached search results that appear in search engines such as Google, Bing or Yahoo etc.

## 9 Right of access

You have the right to ask for a copy of the information we hold about you and to have any inaccuracies in your information corrected.

## 10 Changes

If your personal details change, please help us to keep your information up to date by notifying us at the above address.

We reserve the right to amend this privacy statement. If we do so, we will post notice of the change on our website and you will be deemed to have accepted such changes.

## 11 Marketing

If you register an interest with KDL you will be given the opportunity to opt in to receive future marketing communications. This is done at the point where your personal information is first collected.

If you register to attend an event or you apply to King’s College London, your personal information might be passed to us by third parties to fulfil your request. As part of this process you can opt-in to receive marketing communications.

Within any marketing communications you will be provided with a simple and transparent way to unsubscribe. Any changes you request to how your personal information is processed for the purposes of marketing and/or the provision of service updates will be acted on promptly.
